packages/@aws-cdk/aws-lambda-nodejs/README.md, before:

# Amazon Lambda Node.js Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cdk-constructs: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

This library provides constructs for Node.js Lambda functions.

## Node.js Function

The `NodejsFunction` construct creates a Lambda function with automatic transpiling and bundling
of TypeScript or Javascript code. This results in smaller Lambda packages that contain only the
code and dependencies needed to run the function.

It uses [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) under the hood.

## Reference project architecture

The `NodejsFunction` allows you to define your CDK and runtime dependencies in a single
package.json and to collocate your runtime code with your infrastructure code:

```plaintext
.
├── lib
│   ├── my-construct.api.ts # Lambda handler for API
│   ├── my-construct.auth.ts # Lambda handler for Auth
│   └── my-construct.ts # CDK construct with two Lambda functions
├── package-lock.json # single lock file
├── package.json # CDK and runtime dependencies defined in a single package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

By default, the construct will use the name of the defining file and the construct's
id to look up the entry file. In `my-construct.ts` above we have:

```ts
// automatic entry look up
const apiHandler = new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'api');
const authHandler = new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'auth');
```

Alternatively, an entry file and handler can be specified:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'MyFunction', {
  entry: '/path/to/my/file.ts', // accepts .js, .jsx, .ts, .tsx and .mjs files
  handler: 'myExportedFunc', // defaults to 'handler'
});
```

For monorepos, the reference architecture becomes:

```plaintext
.
├── packages
│   ├── cool-package
│   │   ├── lib
│   │   │   ├── cool-construct.api.ts
│   │   │   ├── cool-construct.auth.ts
│   │   │   └── cool-construct.ts
│   │   ├── package.json # CDK and runtime dependencies for cool-package
│   │   └── tsconfig.json
│   └── super-package
│       ├── lib
│       │   ├── super-construct.handler.ts
│       │   └── super-construct.ts
│       ├── package.json # CDK and runtime dependencies for super-package
│       └── tsconfig.json
├── package-lock.json # single lock file
├── package.json # root dependencies
└── tsconfig.json
```

## Customizing the underlying Lambda function

All properties of `lambda.Function` can be used to customize the underlying `lambda.Function`.

See also the [AWS Lambda construct library](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/tree/main/packages/%40aws-cdk/aws-lambda).

The `NodejsFunction` construct automatically [reuses existing connections](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/node-reusing-connections.html)
when working with the AWS SDK for JavaScript. Set the `awsSdkConnectionReuse` prop to `false` to disable it.

## Lock file

The `NodejsFunction` requires a dependencies lock file (`yarn.lock`, `pnpm-lock.yaml` or
`package-lock.json`). When bundling in a Docker container, the path containing this lock file is
used as the source (`/asset-input`) for the volume mounted in the container.

By default, the construct will try to automatically determine your project lock file.
Alternatively, you can specify the `depsLockFilePath` prop manually. In this
case you need to ensure that this path includes `entry` and any module/dependencies
used by your function. Otherwise bundling will fail.

## Local bundling

If `esbuild` is available it will be used to bundle your code in your environment. Otherwise,
bundling will happen in a [Lambda compatible Docker container](https://gallery.ecr.aws/sam/build-nodejs12.x)
with the Docker platform based on the target architecture of the Lambda function.

For macOS the recommended approach is to install `esbuild` as Docker volume performance is really poor.

`esbuild` can be installed with:

```console
$ npm install --save-dev esbuild@0
```

OR

```console
$ yarn add --dev esbuild@0
```

If you're using a monorepo layout, the `esbuild` dependency needs to be installed in the "root" `package.json` file,
not in the workspace. From the reference architecture described [above](#reference-project-architecture), the `esbuild`
dev dependency needs to be in `./package.json`, not `packages/cool-package/package.json` or
`packages/super-package/package.json`.

To force bundling in a Docker container even if `esbuild` is available in your environment,
set `bundling.forceDockerBundling` to `true`. This is useful if your function relies on node
modules that should be installed (`nodeModules` prop, see [below](#install-modules)) in a Lambda
compatible environment. This is usually the case with modules using native dependencies.

## Working with modules

### Externals

By default, all node modules are bundled except for `aws-sdk`. This can be configured by specifying
`bundling.externalModules`:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    externalModules: [
      'aws-sdk', // Use the 'aws-sdk' available in the Lambda runtime
      'cool-module', // 'cool-module' is already available in a Layer
    ],
  },
});
```

### Install modules

By default, all node modules referenced in your Lambda code will be bundled by `esbuild`.
Use the `nodeModules` prop under `bundling` to specify a list of modules that should not be
bundled but instead included in the `node_modules` folder of the Lambda package. This is useful
when working with native dependencies or when `esbuild` fails to bundle a module.

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    nodeModules: ['native-module', 'other-module'],
  },
});
```

The modules listed in `nodeModules` must be present in the `package.json`'s dependencies or
installed. The same version will be used for installation. The lock file (`yarn.lock`,
`pnpm-lock.yaml` or `package-lock.json`) will be used along with the right installer (`yarn`,
`pnpm` or `npm`).

When working with `nodeModules` using native dependencies, you might want to force bundling in a
Docker container even if `esbuild` is available in your environment. This can be done by setting
`bundling.forceDockerBundling` to `true`.

## Configuring `esbuild`

The `NodejsFunction` construct exposes [esbuild options](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#build-api)
via properties under `bundling`:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    minify: true, // minify code, defaults to false
    sourceMap: true, // include source map, defaults to false
    sourceMapMode: lambda.SourceMapMode.INLINE, // defaults to SourceMapMode.DEFAULT
    sourcesContent: false, // do not include original source into source map, defaults to true
    target: 'es2020', // target environment for the generated JavaScript code
    loader: { // Use the 'dataurl' loader for '.png' files
      '.png': 'dataurl',
    },
    define: { // Replace strings during build time
      'process.env.API_KEY': JSON.stringify('xxx-xxxx-xxx'),
      'process.env.PRODUCTION': JSON.stringify(true),
      'process.env.NUMBER': JSON.stringify(123),
    },
    logLevel: lambda.LogLevel.SILENT, // defaults to LogLevel.WARNING
    keepNames: true, // defaults to false
    tsconfig: 'custom-tsconfig.json', // use custom-tsconfig.json instead of default,
    metafile: true, // include meta file, defaults to false
    banner: '/* comments */', // requires esbuild >= 0.9.0, defaults to none
    footer: '/* comments */', // requires esbuild >= 0.9.0, defaults to none
    charset: lambda.Charset.UTF8, // do not escape non-ASCII characters, defaults to Charset.ASCII
    format: lambda.OutputFormat.ESM, // ECMAScript module output format, defaults to OutputFormat.CJS (OutputFormat.ESM requires Node.js 14.x)
    mainFields: ['module', 'main'], // prefer ECMAScript versions of dependencies
    inject: ['./my-shim.js', './other-shim.js'], // allows to automatically replace a global variable with an import from another file
    esbuildArgs: { // Pass additional arguments to esbuild
      "--log-limit": "0",
      "--splitting": true,
    },
  },
});
```

## Command hooks

It is possible to run additional commands by specifying the `commandHooks` prop:

```text
// This example only available in TypeScript
// Run additional props via `commandHooks`
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler-with-commands', {
  bundling: {
    commandHooks: {
      beforeBundling(inputDir: string, outputDir: string): string[] {
        return [
          `echo hello > ${inputDir}/a.txt`,
          `cp ${inputDir}/a.txt ${outputDir}`,
        ];
      },
      afterBundling(inputDir: string, outputDir: string): string[] {
        return [`cp ${inputDir}/b.txt ${outputDir}/txt`];
      },
      beforeInstall() {
        return [];
      },
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

The following hooks are available:

- `beforeBundling`: runs before all bundling commands
- `beforeInstall`: runs before node modules installation
- `afterBundling`: runs after all bundling commands

They all receive the directory containing the lock file (`inputDir`) and the
directory where the bundled asset will be output (`outputDir`). They must return
an array of commands to run. Commands are chained with `&&`.

The commands will run in the environment in which bundling occurs: inside the
container for Docker bundling or on the host OS for local bundling.

## Pre Compilation with TSC

In some cases, `esbuild` may not yet support some newer features of the typescript language, such as,
[`emitDecoratorMetadata`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#emitDecoratorMetadata).
In such cases, it is possible to run pre-compilation using `tsc` by setting the `preCompilation` flag.

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    preCompilation: true,
  },
});
```

Note: A [`tsconfig.json` file](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html) is required

## Customizing Docker bundling

Use `bundling.environment` to define environments variables when `esbuild` runs:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    environment: {
      NODE_ENV: 'production',
    },
  },
});
```

Use `bundling.buildArgs` to pass build arguments when building the Docker bundling image:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    buildArgs: {
      HTTPS_PROXY: 'https://127.0.0.1:3001',
    },
  }
});
```

Use `bundling.dockerImage` to use a custom Docker bundling image:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    dockerImage: DockerImage.fromBuild('/path/to/Dockerfile'),
  },
});
```

This image should have `esbuild` installed **globally**. If you plan to use `nodeModules` it
should also have `npm`, `yarn` or `pnpm` depending on the lock file you're using.

Use the [default image provided by `@aws-cdk/aws-lambda-nodejs`](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/main/packages/%40aws-cdk/aws-lambda-nodejs/lib/Dockerfile)
as a source of inspiration.

## Asset hash

By default the asset hash will be calculated based on the bundled output (`AssetHashType.OUTPUT`).

Use the `assetHash` prop to pass a custom hash:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    assetHash: 'my-custom-hash',
  },
});
```

If you chose to customize the hash, you will need to make sure it is updated every time the asset
changes, or otherwise it is possible that some deployments will not be invalidated.

Commit message:

chore(lambda-nodejs): Update README

packages/@aws-cdk/aws-lambda-nodejs/README.md, after:

# Amazon Lambda Node.js Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cdk-constructs: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

This library provides constructs for Node.js Lambda functions.

## Node.js Function

The `NodejsFunction` construct creates a Lambda function with automatic transpiling and bundling
of TypeScript or Javascript code. This results in smaller Lambda packages that contain only the
code and dependencies needed to run the function.

It uses [esbuild](https://esbuild.github.io/) under the hood.

## Node.js Edge Function

The `NodejsEdgeFunction` has identical behaviour to the `NodejsFunction` however it supports
Lambda@Edge instead of standard Lambda functions.

## Reference project architecture

The `NodejsFunction` allows you to define your CDK and runtime dependencies in a single
package.json and to collocate your runtime code with your infrastructure code:

```plaintext
.
├── lib
│   ├── my-construct.api.ts # Lambda handler for API
│   ├── my-construct.auth.ts # Lambda handler for Auth
│   └── my-construct.ts # CDK construct with two Lambda functions
├── package-lock.json # single lock file
├── package.json # CDK and runtime dependencies defined in a single package.json
└── tsconfig.json
```

By default, the construct will use the name of the defining file and the construct's
id to look up the entry file. In `my-construct.ts` above we have:

```ts
// automatic entry look up
const apiHandler = new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'api');
const authHandler = new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'auth');
```

Alternatively, an entry file and handler can be specified:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'MyFunction', {
  entry: '/path/to/my/file.ts', // accepts .js, .jsx, .ts, .tsx and .mjs files
  handler: 'myExportedFunc', // defaults to 'handler'
});
```

For monorepos, the reference architecture becomes:

```plaintext
.
├── packages
│   ├── cool-package
│   │   ├── lib
│   │   │   ├── cool-construct.api.ts
│   │   │   ├── cool-construct.auth.ts
│   │   │   └── cool-construct.ts
│   │   ├── package.json # CDK and runtime dependencies for cool-package
│   │   └── tsconfig.json
│   └── super-package
│       ├── lib
│       │   ├── super-construct.handler.ts
│       │   └── super-construct.ts
│       ├── package.json # CDK and runtime dependencies for super-package
│       └── tsconfig.json
├── package-lock.json # single lock file
├── package.json # root dependencies
└── tsconfig.json
```

## Customizing the underlying Lambda function

All properties of `lambda.Function` can be used to customize the underlying `lambda.Function`.

See also the [AWS Lambda construct library](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/tree/main/packages/%40aws-cdk/aws-lambda).

The `NodejsFunction` construct automatically [reuses existing connections](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sdk-for-javascript/v2/developer-guide/node-reusing-connections.html)
when working with the AWS SDK for JavaScript. Set the `awsSdkConnectionReuse` prop to `false` to disable it.

## Lock file

The `NodejsFunction` requires a dependencies lock file (`yarn.lock`, `pnpm-lock.yaml` or
`package-lock.json`). When bundling in a Docker container, the path containing this lock file is
used as the source (`/asset-input`) for the volume mounted in the container.

By default, the construct will try to automatically determine your project lock file.
Alternatively, you can specify the `depsLockFilePath` prop manually. In this
case you need to ensure that this path includes `entry` and any module/dependencies
used by your function. Otherwise bundling will fail.

## Local bundling

If `esbuild` is available it will be used to bundle your code in your environment. Otherwise,
bundling will happen in a [Lambda compatible Docker container](https://gallery.ecr.aws/sam/build-nodejs12.x)
with the Docker platform based on the target architecture of the Lambda function.

For macOS the recommended approach is to install `esbuild` as Docker volume performance is really poor.

`esbuild` can be installed with:

```console
$ npm install --save-dev esbuild@0
```

OR

```console
$ yarn add --dev esbuild@0
```

If you're using a monorepo layout, the `esbuild` dependency needs to be installed in the "root" `package.json` file,
not in the workspace. From the reference architecture described [above](#reference-project-architecture), the `esbuild`
dev dependency needs to be in `./package.json`, not `packages/cool-package/package.json` or
`packages/super-package/package.json`.

To force bundling in a Docker container even if `esbuild` is available in your environment,
set `bundling.forceDockerBundling` to `true`. This is useful if your function relies on node
modules that should be installed (`nodeModules` prop, see [below](#install-modules)) in a Lambda
compatible environment. This is usually the case with modules using native dependencies.

## Working with modules

### Externals

By default, all node modules are bundled except for `aws-sdk`. This can be configured by specifying
`bundling.externalModules`:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    externalModules: [
      'aws-sdk', // Use the 'aws-sdk' available in the Lambda runtime
      'cool-module', // 'cool-module' is already available in a Layer
    ],
  },
});
```

### Install modules

By default, all node modules referenced in your Lambda code will be bundled by `esbuild`.
Use the `nodeModules` prop under `bundling` to specify a list of modules that should not be
bundled but instead included in the `node_modules` folder of the Lambda package. This is useful
when working with native dependencies or when `esbuild` fails to bundle a module.

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    nodeModules: ['native-module', 'other-module'],
  },
});
```

The modules listed in `nodeModules` must be present in the `package.json`'s dependencies or
installed. The same version will be used for installation. The lock file (`yarn.lock`,
`pnpm-lock.yaml` or `package-lock.json`) will be used along with the right installer (`yarn`,
`pnpm` or `npm`).

When working with `nodeModules` using native dependencies, you might want to force bundling in a
Docker container even if `esbuild` is available in your environment. This can be done by setting
`bundling.forceDockerBundling` to `true`.

## Configuring `esbuild`

The `NodejsFunction` construct exposes [esbuild options](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#build-api)
via properties under `bundling`:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    minify: true, // minify code, defaults to false
    sourceMap: true, // include source map, defaults to false
    sourceMapMode: lambda.SourceMapMode.INLINE, // defaults to SourceMapMode.DEFAULT
    sourcesContent: false, // do not include original source into source map, defaults to true
    target: 'es2020', // target environment for the generated JavaScript code
    loader: { // Use the 'dataurl' loader for '.png' files
      '.png': 'dataurl',
    },
    define: { // Replace strings during build time
      'process.env.API_KEY': JSON.stringify('xxx-xxxx-xxx'),
      'process.env.PRODUCTION': JSON.stringify(true),
      'process.env.NUMBER': JSON.stringify(123),
    },
    logLevel: lambda.LogLevel.SILENT, // defaults to LogLevel.WARNING
    keepNames: true, // defaults to false
    tsconfig: 'custom-tsconfig.json', // use custom-tsconfig.json instead of default,
    metafile: true, // include meta file, defaults to false
    banner: '/* comments */', // requires esbuild >= 0.9.0, defaults to none
    footer: '/* comments */', // requires esbuild >= 0.9.0, defaults to none
    charset: lambda.Charset.UTF8, // do not escape non-ASCII characters, defaults to Charset.ASCII
    format: lambda.OutputFormat.ESM, // ECMAScript module output format, defaults to OutputFormat.CJS (OutputFormat.ESM requires Node.js 14.x)
    mainFields: ['module', 'main'], // prefer ECMAScript versions of dependencies
    inject: ['./my-shim.js', './other-shim.js'], // allows to automatically replace a global variable with an import from another file
    esbuildArgs: { // Pass additional arguments to esbuild
      "--log-limit": "0",
      "--splitting": true,
    },
  },
});
```

## Command hooks

It is possible to run additional commands by specifying the `commandHooks` prop:

```text
// This example only available in TypeScript
// Run additional props via `commandHooks`
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler-with-commands', {
  bundling: {
    commandHooks: {
      beforeBundling(inputDir: string, outputDir: string): string[] {
        return [
          `echo hello > ${inputDir}/a.txt`,
          `cp ${inputDir}/a.txt ${outputDir}`,
        ];
      },
      afterBundling(inputDir: string, outputDir: string): string[] {
        return [`cp ${inputDir}/b.txt ${outputDir}/txt`];
      },
      beforeInstall() {
        return [];
      },
      // ...
    },
    // ...
  },
});
```

The following hooks are available:

- `beforeBundling`: runs before all bundling commands
- `beforeInstall`: runs before node modules installation
- `afterBundling`: runs after all bundling commands

They all receive the directory containing the lock file (`inputDir`) and the
directory where the bundled asset will be output (`outputDir`). They must return
an array of commands to run. Commands are chained with `&&`.

The commands will run in the environment in which bundling occurs: inside the
container for Docker bundling or on the host OS for local bundling.

## Pre Compilation with TSC

In some cases, `esbuild` may not yet support some newer features of the typescript language, such as,
[`emitDecoratorMetadata`](https://www.typescriptlang.org/tsconfig#emitDecoratorMetadata).
In such cases, it is possible to run pre-compilation using `tsc` by setting the `preCompilation` flag.

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    preCompilation: true,
  },
});
```

Note: A [`tsconfig.json` file](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/tsconfig-json.html) is required

## Customizing Docker bundling

Use `bundling.environment` to define environments variables when `esbuild` runs:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    environment: {
      NODE_ENV: 'production',
    },
  },
});
```

Use `bundling.buildArgs` to pass build arguments when building the Docker bundling image:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    buildArgs: {
      HTTPS_PROXY: 'https://127.0.0.1:3001',
    },
  }
});
```

Use `bundling.dockerImage` to use a custom Docker bundling image:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    dockerImage: DockerImage.fromBuild('/path/to/Dockerfile'),
  },
});
```

This image should have `esbuild` installed **globally**. If you plan to use `nodeModules` it
should also have `npm`, `yarn` or `pnpm` depending on the lock file you're using.

Use the [default image provided by `@aws-cdk/aws-lambda-nodejs`](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/main/packages/%40aws-cdk/aws-lambda-nodejs/lib/Dockerfile)
as a source of inspiration.

## Asset hash

By default the asset hash will be calculated based on the bundled output (`AssetHashType.OUTPUT`).

Use the `assetHash` prop to pass a custom hash:

```ts
new lambda.NodejsFunction(this, 'my-handler', {
  bundling: {
    assetHash: 'my-custom-hash',
  },
});
```

If you chose to customize the hash, you will need to make sure it is updated every time the asset
changes, or otherwise it is possible that some deployments will not be invalidated.
