packages/@aws-cdk/aws-ssm/README.md, before:

# AWS Systems Manager Construct Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cfn-resources: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cfn--resources-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

![cdk-constructs: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

This module is part of the [AWS Cloud Development Kit](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk) project.

## Using existing SSM Parameters in your CDK app

You can reference existing SSM Parameter Store values that you want to use in
your CDK app by using `ssm.StringParameter.fromStringParameterAttributes`:

[using SSM parameter](test/integ.parameter-store-string.lit.ts)

### Lookup existing parameters

You can also use an existing parameter by looking up the parameter from the AWS environment.
This method uses AWS API calls to lookup the value from SSM during synthesis.

```ts
const stringValue = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(stack, '/My/Public/Parameter');
```

When using `valueFromLookup` an initial value of 'dummy-value-for-${parameterName}'
(`dummy-value-for-/My/Public/Parameter` in the above example)
is returned prior to the lookup being performed. This can lead to errors if you are using this
value in places that require a certain format. For example if you have stored the ARN for a SNS
topic in a SSM Parameter which you want to lookup and provide to `Topic.fromTopicArn()`

```ts
const arnLookup = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(this, '/my/topic/arn');
sns.Topic.fromTopicArn(this, 'Topic', arnLookup);
```

Initially `arnLookup` will be equal to `dummy-value-for-/my/topic/arn` which will cause
`Topic.fromTopicArn` to throw an error indicating that the value is not in `arn` format.

For these use cases you need to handle the `dummy-value` in your code. For example:

```ts
const arnLookup = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(this, '/my/topic/arn');
let arnLookupValue: string;
if (arnLookup.includes('dummy-value')) {
	arnLookupValue = this.formatArn({
	service: 'sns',
	resource: 'topic',
	resourceName: arnLookup,
	});

} else {
	arnLookupValue = arnLookup;
}

sns.Topic.fromTopicArn(this, 'Topic', arnLookupValue);
```

Alternatively, if the property supports tokens you can convert the parameter value into a token
to be resolved _after_ the lookup has been completed.

```ts
const arnLookup = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(this, '/my/role/arn');
iam.Role.fromRoleArn(this, 'role', Lazy.string({ produce: () => arnLookup }));
```

## Creating new SSM Parameters in your CDK app

You can create either `ssm.StringParameter` or `ssm.StringListParameter`s in
a CDK app. These are public (not secret) values. Parameters of type
*SecureString* cannot be created directly from a CDK application; if you want
to provision secrets automatically, use Secrets Manager Secrets (see the
`@aws-cdk/aws-secretsmanager` package).

```ts
new ssm.StringParameter(this, 'Parameter', {
  allowedPattern: '.*',
  description: 'The value Foo',
  parameterName: 'FooParameter',
  stringValue: 'Foo',
  tier: ssm.ParameterTier.ADVANCED,
});
```

[creating SSM parameters](test/integ.parameter.lit.ts)

When specifying an `allowedPattern`, the values provided as string literals
are validated against the pattern and an exception is raised if a value
provided does not comply.

Commit message:

feat(ssm): import ssm list parameters
This PR fixes some issues with how SSM parameter types are implemented.
Currently this module models a single type of parameter (`ParameterType`
enum) and that type is used to represent _both_ [CloudFormation SSM
Parameter types](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html#aws-ssm-parameter-types)
For example,

```ts
new cdk.CfnParameter(this, 'Param', {
  type: 'AWS::SSM::Parameter::Value<String>', // type
});
```

_and_ the [AWS::SSM::Parameter.type](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-ssm-parameter.html#cfn-ssm-parameter-type)
For example,

```ts
new ssm.CfnParameter(this, 'Param', {
  type: 'String',
});
```

This overloading caused the issue in the referenced issue as well as
making it more confusing for the user. For example, You can specify a type when
creating a `StringParameter`, but you shouldn't need to since the only
valid values are `String | StringList` and these are modeled as two
separate classes `StringParameter & StringListParameter`.

To address this, the PR introduces a new enum `ParameterValueType` to
model the CloudFormation SSM Parameter Types. This enum is only used in
the `valueForXXX` and `fromXXX` methods since those return a CFN
parameter.

- Deprecated `ssm.StringParameter.valueForTypedStringParameter` since it
  uses the old overloaded `ParameterType`.
  - Introduce a new `ssm.StringParameter.valueForTypedStringParameterV2`
    that uses the new `ParameterValueType` enum
- Add `ssm.StringListParameter.valueForTypedListParameter`
- Add `ssm.StringListParameter.fromListParameterAttributes`
- Deprecated `StringParameterProps.type` since the value should only be
  `String`.

fix #12477

packages/@aws-cdk/aws-ssm/README.md, after:

# AWS Systems Manager Construct Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cfn-resources: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cfn--resources-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

![cdk-constructs: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

This module is part of the [AWS Cloud Development Kit](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk) project.

## Using existing SSM Parameters in your CDK app

You can reference existing SSM Parameter Store values that you want to use in
your CDK app by using `ssm.StringParameter.fromStringParameterAttributes`:

[using SSM parameter](test/integ.parameter-store-string.lit.ts)

You can also reference an existing SSM Parameter Store value that matches an
[AWS specific parameter type](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/parameters-section-structure.html#aws-specific-parameter-types):

```ts
ssm.StringParameter.valueForTypedStringParameterV2(stack, '/My/Public/Parameter', ssm.ParameterValueType.AWS_EC2_IMAGE_ID);
```

To do the same for a SSM Parameter Store value that is stored as a list:

```ts
ssm.StringListParameter.valueForTypedListParameter(stack, '/My/Public/Parameter', ssm.ParameterValueType.AWS_EC2_IMAGE_ID);
```

### Lookup existing parameters

You can also use an existing parameter by looking up the parameter from the AWS environment.
This method uses AWS API calls to lookup the value from SSM during synthesis.

```ts
const stringValue = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(stack, '/My/Public/Parameter');
```

When using `valueFromLookup` an initial value of 'dummy-value-for-${parameterName}'
(`dummy-value-for-/My/Public/Parameter` in the above example)
is returned prior to the lookup being performed. This can lead to errors if you are using this
value in places that require a certain format. For example if you have stored the ARN for a SNS
topic in a SSM Parameter which you want to lookup and provide to `Topic.fromTopicArn()`

```ts
const arnLookup = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(this, '/my/topic/arn');
sns.Topic.fromTopicArn(this, 'Topic', arnLookup);
```

Initially `arnLookup` will be equal to `dummy-value-for-/my/topic/arn` which will cause
`Topic.fromTopicArn` to throw an error indicating that the value is not in `arn` format.

For these use cases you need to handle the `dummy-value` in your code. For example:

```ts
const arnLookup = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(this, '/my/topic/arn');
let arnLookupValue: string;
if (arnLookup.includes('dummy-value')) {
	arnLookupValue = this.formatArn({
	service: 'sns',
	resource: 'topic',
	resourceName: arnLookup,
	});

} else {
	arnLookupValue = arnLookup;
}

sns.Topic.fromTopicArn(this, 'Topic', arnLookupValue);
```

Alternatively, if the property supports tokens you can convert the parameter value into a token
to be resolved _after_ the lookup has been completed.

```ts
const arnLookup = ssm.StringParameter.valueFromLookup(this, '/my/role/arn');
iam.Role.fromRoleArn(this, 'role', Lazy.string({ produce: () => arnLookup }));
```

## Creating new SSM Parameters in your CDK app

You can create either `ssm.StringParameter` or `ssm.StringListParameter`s in
a CDK app. These are public (not secret) values. Parameters of type
*SecureString* cannot be created directly from a CDK application; if you want
to provision secrets automatically, use Secrets Manager Secrets (see the
`@aws-cdk/aws-secretsmanager` package).

```ts
new ssm.StringParameter(this, 'Parameter', {
  allowedPattern: '.*',
  description: 'The value Foo',
  parameterName: 'FooParameter',
  stringValue: 'Foo',
  tier: ssm.ParameterTier.ADVANCED,
});
```

[creating SSM parameters](test/integ.parameter.lit.ts)

When specifying an `allowedPattern`, the values provided as string literals
are validated against the pattern and an exception is raised if a value
provided does not comply.
