# AWS Construct Library Design Guidelines

The AWS Construct Library is a rich class library of CDK constructs which
represent all resources offered by the AWS Cloud.

The purpose of this document is to describe common guidelines for designing the
APIs in the AWS Construct Library in order to ensure a consistent and integrated
experience across the entire AWS surface area.

As much as possible, the guidelines in this document are enforced using the
__awslint__ tool which reflects on the APIs and verifies that the APIs adhere to
the guidelines.

When a guideline is backed by a linter rule, the rule name will be referenced
like this: <a id="resource-class-is-construct">`awslint|resource-class-is-construct`</a>
and anchored with the rule name.

For the purpose of this document we will use "**Foo**" to denote the official
name of the resource as defined in the AWS CloudFormation resource specification
(i.e. "Bucket", "Queue", "Topic", etc). This notation allows deriving names from
the official name. For example, `FooProps` would be `BucketProps`, `TopicProps`,
etc, `IFoo` would be `IBucket`, `ITopic` and so forth.

The guidelines in this document use TypeScript (and npm package names) since
this is the source programming language used to author the library, which is
later packaged and published to all programming languages through
[jsii](https://github.com/aws/jsii).

## Modules

> <a id="module-name">awslint: module-name</a>

AWS resources are organized into modules based on their AWS service. For
example, the "Bucket" resource, which is offered by the Amazon S3 service will
be available under the **@aws-cdk/aws-s3** module.

## Constructs

Constructs are the basic building block of CDK applications. They represent
abstract cloud resources of any complexity.

> <a id="resource-class">awslint: construct-ctor</a>

Construct initializer (constructor) signature should always be:

```ts
constructor(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, props: FooProps)
```

> __TODO__: <a id="construct-ctor-optional-props">awslint: construct-ctor-optional-props</a>

If all initialization properties are optional, the `props` argument must also be
optional.

> NOTE: This rule breaks down for the case where there are two (or more)
> potential arguments, and exactly one (or at least one) of them is required.
> Then the props will be marked as optional, but the whole object is not
> optional since there is no valid use of not specifying anything.
>
> Ideally we rather not design APIs such as this, but there might be cases where
> this is the best approach. In those cases, it is okay to "exclude" this role:scope
> in `package.json`.

```ts
constructor(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, props: FooProps = { })
```

Each module in the AWS Construct Library includes generated constructs which
represent the "raw" CloudFormation resources.

1. These classes are named `CfnFoo`
2. They extend `cdk.Resource` (which extends `cdk.Construct`)
3. Their constructor accepts a `props` parameter of type `CfnFooProps`
4. `CfnFooProps` represents the exact set of properties as defined in the
   AWS CloudFormation resource specification.
5. They have readonly properties which represent all the runtime attributes of
   the resource.

> NOTE: there are no linting rules against this section because this layer
> is entirely generated by the __cfn2ts__ tool according to these guidelines
> so there is no need to lint against it.

## Resource Interface

> <a id="resource-interface">awslint: resource-interface</a>

Every AWS resource should have a resource interface `IFoo`.

This interface represents both resources defined within the same stack (aka
"internal" or "owned") or resources that are defined in different stack/app (aka
"imported", "existing", "external" or "unowned"). Throughout this document we
shall refer to these two types of resources as **"internal"** and
**"external"**.

> <a id="resource-interface-extends-construct">awslint: resource-interface-extends-construct</a>

Resource interfaces should extend `cdk.IConstruct` in order to allow consumers
to take advantage of construct capabilities such as unique IDs, paths, scopes, etc.

> TODO: <a id="resource-ref-interface">awslint: resource-ref-interface</a>

When resources are referenced anywhere in the API (e.g. in properties or methods
of other resources or higher level constructs), the resource interface (`IFoo`)
should be preferred over the concrete resource class (`Foo`). This will allow
users to supply either internal or external resources.

## Resource Attributes

Every AWS resource has a set of "physical" runtime attributes such as ARN,
physical names, URLs, etc. These attributes are commonly late-bound, which means
they can only be resolved when AWS CloudFormation actually provisions the
resource.

Resource attributes almost always represent **string** values (URL, ARN, name).
Sometimes they might also represent a **list of strings**.

> <a id="resource-attribute">awslint: resource-attribute</a><br/>
> <a id="resource-attribute-immutable">awslint: resource-attribute-immutable</a>

All resource attributes must be represented as readonly properties of the
resource interface. The names of the attributes must correspond to the
CloudFormation resource attribute name.

> TODO: <a id="resource-attribute-type">awslint: resource-attribute-type</a>

Since attribute values can either be late-bound ("a promise to a string") or
concrete ("a string"), the AWS CDK has a mechanism called "tokens" which allows
codifying late-bound values into strings or string arrays. This approach was
chosen in order to dramatically simplify the type-system and ergonomics of CDK
code. As long as users treat these attributes as **opaque values** (e.g. not try
to parse them or manipulate them), they can be used interchangeably.

As long as attribute values are not manipulated, they can still be concatenated
idiomatically. For example:

```ts
`This is my bucket name: ${bucket.bucketName} and bucket ARN: ${bucket.bucketArn}`
```

Even though `bucketName` and `bucketArn` will only be resolved during
deployment, the CDK will identify those as tokens and will convert this string
into an `{ "Fn::Join" }` expression which includes the relevant intrinsic
functions.

If needed, you can query whether an object includes unresolved tokens by using
the `cdk.isToken(x)` function.

Resource attributes should use a type that corresponds to the __resolved__ AWS
CloudFormation type (e.g. `string`, `string[]`).

At the moment, attributes that represent strings, are represented as `string` in
the `CfnFoo` resource. However, other types of tokens (string arrays, numbers)
are still represented as `Token`. You can use `token.toList()` to represent a token as a
string array, and soon we will also have `toNumber()`.

## Resource Class

> <a id="resource-class">awslint: resource-class</a>

Each `CfnFoo` resource must have a corresponding `Foo` high-level (L2)
class.

> <a id="resource-class-is-construct">awslint: resource-class-is-construct</a>

Classes which represent AWS resources are constructs (they must extend the `cdk.Construct` class
directly or indirectly).

## Resource Props

> <a id="resource-props">awslint: resource-props</a>

Resource constructs are initialized with a set of properties defined in an interface `FooProps`.

Initialization properties should enable developers to define the resource in
their application. Generally, they should expose most of the surface
area of the resource.

Initialization properties should be _required_ only if there is no sane default
that can be provided or calculated. By providing sensible and safe defaults (or
"smart defaults"), developers can get started quickly.

## Imports

In order to allow users to work with resources that are either internal or
external to their stack, AWS resources should provide an "import/export"
mechanism as described in this section.

> <a id="import">awslint: import</a>

Every AWS resource class must include a static method called `import` with the
following signature:

```ts
static import(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, props: XxxImportProps): IXxx
```

This method returns an object that implements the resource interface (`IXxx`)
and represents an "imported resource".

> <a id="import-props-interface">awslint: import-props-interface</a>

The "props" argument is `XxxImportProps`, which is an interface that declares
properties that allow the user to specify an external resource identity, usually
by providing one or more resource attributes such as ARN, physical name, etc.

The import interface should have the minimum required properties, that is: if it
is possible to parse the resource name from the ARN (using `cdk.Stack.parseArn`),
then only the ARN should be required. In cases where it
is not possible to parse the ARN (e.g. if it is a token and the resource name
might have use "/" characters), both the ARN and the name should be optional and
runtime-checks should be performed to require that at least one will be defined.
See `ecr.RepositoryAttributes` for an example.

The recommended way to implement the `import` method is as follows:

1. A public abstract base class called `XxxBase` which implements `IXxx` and
   extends `cdk.Construct`.
2. The base class should provide as much of the implementation of `IXxx` as possible given the
   context it has. In most cases, `grant` methods, `metric` methods, etc. can be implemented at
   at that level.
5. A private class called `ImportedXxx` which extends `XxxBase` and implements
   any remaining abstract members.
4. The `import` static method should be have the following implementation:

```ts
public static import(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, props: XxxImportProps): IXxx {
  return new ImportedXxx(scope, id, props);
}
```

## Exports

> <a id="export">awslint: export</a>

All resource interfaces (`IXxx`) must declare a method called `export` with the
following signature:

```ts
export(): XxxImportProps
```

This method can be used to export this resource from the current stack and use
it in another stack through an `Xxx.import` call.

The implementation of `export` is different between internal resources (`Xxx`) and
external imported resource (`ImportedXxx` as recommended above):

For internal resources, the `export` method should produce a CloudFormation Output
for each resource attribute, and return a set of `{ "Fn::ImportValue" }` tokens
so they can be imported to another stack.

```ts
class Xxx extends XxxBase {
  public export(): XxxImportProps {
    return {
      attr1: new cdk.CfnOutput(this, 'Attr1', { value: this.attr1 }).makeImportValue().toString(),
      attr2: new cdk.CfnOutput(this, 'Attr2', { value: this.attr2 }).makeImportValue().toString(),
    }
  }
}
```

For external resources, we know the actual values, so basically you would want to reflect
your `props` as is:

```ts
class ImportedXxx extends XxxBase {
  constructor(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, private readonly props: XxxImportProps) {
    // ...
  }

  public export() {
    return this.props;
  }
}
```

The reason we are defining `export` on the resource interface and not on the resource
class is in order to allow "composite export" scenarios, where a higher-level construct
wants to implement `export` by composing the exports of multiple resources:

```ts
interface MyCompositeProps {
  bucket: s3.IBucket;
  topic: sns.ITopic;
}

class MyComposite extends cdk.Construct {
  public export(): MyCompositeImportProps {
    return {
      bucket: this.bucket.export(),
      topic: this.topic.export()
    }
  }
}
```

In this scenario, you don't know if `bucket` or `topic` are internal or external resources,
but you still want export to work.

## General Guidelines

### Defaults must be documented on optional interface properties

> TODO: <a id="interface-defaults-docs">awslint: interface-defaults-docs</a>

The `@default` documentation tag must be included on all optional properties of
interfaces.

## Complete Example

Here's a complete "template" for the types required when defining a resource in the
AWS construct library:

```ts
// must extend cdk.IConstruct
// extends all interfaces that are applicable for both internal
// and external resources of this type
export interface IFoo extends cdk.IConstruct, ISomething {

  // attributes
  readonly fooArn: string;
  readonly fooBoo: string;

  // security group connections (if applicable)
  readonly connections: ec2.Connections;

  // permission grants (adds statements to the principal's policy)
  grant(grantee?: iam.IGrantable, ...actions: string[]): void;
  grantFoo(grantee?: iam.IGrantable): void;
  grantBar(grantee?: iam.IGrantable): void;

  // resource policy (if applicable)
  addToResourcePolicy(statement: iam.PolicyStatement): void;

  // role (if applicable)
  addToRolePolicy(statement: iam.PolicyStatement): void;

  // pipeline (if applicable)
  addToPipeline(stage: pipelineapi.IStage, name: string, props?: FooActionProps): FooAction;

  // metrics
  metric(metricName: string, props?: cloudwatch.MetricOptions): cloudwatch.Metric;
  metricFoo(props?: cloudwatch.MetricOptions): cloudwatch.Metric;
  metricBar(props?: cloudwatch.MetricOptions): cloudwatch.Metric;

  // export
  export(): FooImportProps;

  // any other methods/properties that are applicable for both internal
  // and external resources of this type.
  // ...
}

// base class to share implementation between internal/external resources
// it has to be public sadly.
export abstract class FooBase extends cdk.Construct implements IFoo {

  // attributes are usually still abstract at this level
  public abstract readonly fooArn: string;
  public abstract readonly fooBoo: string[];

  // the "export" method is also still abstract
  public abstract export(): FooAttributes;

  // grants can usually be shared
  public grantYyy(grantee?: iam.IGrantable) {
    // ...
  }

  // metrics can usually be shared
  public metricFoo(...) { ... }
}

// extends the abstract base class and implement any interfaces that are not applicable
// for imported resources. This is quite rare usually, but can happen.
export class Foo extends FooBase implements IAnotherInterface {

  // the import method is always going to look like this.
  public static import(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, props: FooImportProps): IFoo {
    return new ImportedFoo(scope, id, props);
  }

  // implement resource attributes as readonly properties
  public readonly fooArn: string;
  public readonly fooBoo: string[];

  // ctor's 3rd argument is always FooProps. It should be optional (`= { }`) in case
  // there are no required properties.
  constructor(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, props: FooProps) {
    super(scope, id);

    // you would usually add a `CfnFoo` resource at this point.
    const resource = new CfnFoo(this, 'Resource', {
      // ...
    });

    // proxy resource properties
    this.fooArn = resource.fooArn;
    this.fooBoo = resource.fooBoo;
  }

  // this is how export() should be implemented on internal resources
  // they would produce a stack export and return the "Fn::ImportValue" token
  // for them so they can be imported to another stack.
  public export(): FooAttributes {
    return {
      fooArn: new cdk.CfnOutput(this, 'Arn', { value: this.fooArn }).makeImportValue().toString(), // represent Fn::ImportValue as a string
      fooBoo: new cdk.CfnOutput(this, 'Boo', { value: this.fooBoo }).makeImportValue().toList() // represent as string[]
      // ...
    }
  }
}

// an internal class (don't export it) representing the external (imported) resource
class ImportedFoo extends FooBase {
  public readonly string fooArn;
  public readonly string[] fooBoo;

  constructor(scope: cdk.Construct, id: string, private readonly props: FooImportProps) {
    super(scope, id);

    this.fooArn = props.fooArn;
    this.fooBoo = props.fooBoo;
  }

  public export() {
    return this.props; // just reflect props back
  }
}
```

## Roadmap

- [ ] IAM (`role`, `addToRolePolicy`, `addToResourcePolicy`)
- [ ] Grants (`grantXxx`)
- [ ] Metrics (`metricXxx`)
- [ ] Events (`onXxx`)
- [ ] Security Groups (`connections`)
- [ ] Pipeline Actions (`addToPipline`)
- [ ] SNS Targets
- [ ] `_asFooTarget`
- [ ] TODO: other cross AWS patterns
