# AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM)

#### Version 2016-10-31

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119](http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc2119.txt).

The AWS Serverless Application Model (SAM) is licensed under [The Apache License, Version 2.0](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html).

## Table of contents
* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Specification](#specification)
  * [Format](#format)
  * [Example: AWS SAM template](#example-aws-sam-template)
  * [Globals Section](#globals-section)
  * [Resource types](#resource-types)
  * [Event source types](#event-source-types)
  * [Property types](#property-types)
  * [Data types](#data-types)
  

## Introduction

AWS SAM is a model used to define serverless applications on AWS.

Serverless applications are applications composed of functions triggered by events. A typical serverless application consists of one or more AWS Lambda functions triggered by events such as object uploads to [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3), [Amazon SNS](https://aws.amazon.com/sns) notifications, and API actions. Those functions can stand alone or leverage other resources such as [Amazon DynamoDB](https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb) tables or S3 buckets. The most basic serverless application is simply a function.

AWS SAM is based on [AWS CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/). A serverless application is defined in a [CloudFormation template](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/gettingstarted.templatebasics.html) and deployed as a [CloudFormation stack](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/updating.stacks.walkthrough.html). An AWS SAM template is a CloudFormation template.

AWS SAM defines a set of objects which can be included in a CloudFormation template to describe common components of serverless applications easily.


## Specification

### Format

The files describing a serverless application in accordance with AWS SAM are [JSON](http://www.json.org/) or [YAML](http://yaml.org/spec/1.1/) formatted text files. These files are [CloudFormation templates](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/template-guide.html).

AWS SAM introduces several new resources and property types that can be embedded into the [Resources](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/resources-section-structure.html) section of the template. The templates may include all other template sections and use [CloudFormation intrinsic functions](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference.html) to access properties available only at runtime.

In order to include objects defined by AWS SAM within a CloudFormation template, the template must include a `Transform` section in the document root with a value of `AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31`.

 - [Resource types](#resource-types)
 - [Event source types](#event-source-types)
 - [Property types](#property-types)
 - [Globals Section](#globals-section)


### Example: AWS SAM template

```yaml
AWSTemplateFormatVersion: '2010-09-09'
Transform: 'AWS::Serverless-2016-10-31'
Resources:
  MyFunction:
    Type: 'AWS::Serverless::Function'
    Properties:
      Handler: index.handler
      Runtime: nodejs6.10
      CodeUri: 's3://my-bucket/function.zip'
```

All property names in AWS SAM are **case sensitive**.

### Globals Section
Globals is a section in your SAM template to define properties common to all your Serverless Function and APIs. All the `AWS::Serverless::Function` and
`AWS::Serverless::Api` resources will inherit the properties defined here.

Read the [Globals Guide](../docs/globals.rst) for more detailed information.

Example:

```yaml
Globals:
  Function:
    Runtime: nodejs6.10
    Timeout: 180
    Handler: index.handler
    Environment:
      Variables:
        TABLE_NAME: data-table
  Api:
    EndpointConfiguration: REGIONAL
    Cors: "'www.example.com'"

  SimpleTable:
    SSESpecification:
      SSEEnabled: true
```


### Resource types
 - [AWS::Serverless::Function](#awsserverlessfunction)
 - [AWS::Serverless::Api](#awsserverlessapi)
 - [AWS::Serverless::Application](#awsserverlessapplication)
 - [AWS::Serverless::SimpleTable](#awsserverlesssimpletable)
 - [AWS::Serverless::LayerVersion](#awsserverlesslayerversion)

#### AWS::Serverless::Function

Creates a Lambda function, IAM execution role, and event source mappings which trigger the function.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Handler | `string` | **Required.** Function within your code that is called to begin execution.
Runtime | `string` | **Required.** The runtime environment.
CodeUri | `string` <span>&#124;</span> [S3 Location Object](#s3-location-object) | **Either CodeUri or InlineCode must be specified.** S3 Uri or location to the function code. The S3 object this Uri references MUST be a [Lambda deployment package](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/deployment-package-v2.html).
InlineCode | `string` | **Either CodeUri or InlineCode must be specified.** The inline code for the lambda.
FunctionName | `string` | A name for the function. If you don't specify a name, a unique name will be generated for you. [More Info](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-lambda-function.html#cfn-lambda-function-functionname)
Description | `string` | Description of the function.
MemorySize | `integer` | Size of the memory allocated per invocation of the function in MB. Defaults to 128.
Timeout | `integer` | Maximum time that the function can run before it is killed in seconds. Defaults to 3.
Role | `string` | ARN of an IAM role to use as this function's execution role. If omitted, a default role is created for this function.
Policies | `string` <span>&#124;</span> List of `string` <span>&#124;</span> [IAM policy document object](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies.html) <span>&#124;</span> List of [IAM policy document object](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/reference_policies.html) <span>&#124;</span> List of [SAM Policy Templates](../docs/policy_templates.rst) | Names of AWS managed IAM policies or IAM policy documents or SAM Policy Templates that this function needs, which should be appended to the default role for this function. If the Role property is set, this property has no meaning.
Environment | [Function environment object](#environment-object) | Configuration for the runtime environment.
VpcConfig | [VPC config object](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-lambda-function-vpcconfig.html) | Configuration to enable this function to access private resources within your VPC.
Events | Map of `string` to [Event source object](#event-source-object) | A map (string to [Event source object](#event-source-object)) that defines the events that trigger this function. Keys are limited to alphanumeric characters.
Tags | Map of `string` to `string` | A map (string to string) that specifies the tags to be added to this function. Keys and values are limited to alphanumeric characters. Keys can be 1 to 127 Unicode characters in length and cannot be prefixed with `aws:`. Values can be 1 to 255 Unicode characters in length. When the stack is created, SAM will automatically add a `lambda:createdBy:SAM` tag to this Lambda function.
Tracing | `string` | String that specifies the function's [X-Ray tracing mode](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/lambda-x-ray.html). Accepted values are `Active` and `PassThrough`
KmsKeyArn | `string` | The Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of an AWS Key Management Service (AWS KMS) key that Lambda uses to encrypt and decrypt your function's environment variables.
DeadLetterQueue | `map` <span>&#124;</span> [DeadLetterQueue Object](#deadletterqueue-object) | Configures SNS topic or SQS queue where Lambda sends events that it can't process.
DeploymentPreference | [DeploymentPreference Object](#deploymentpreference-object) | Settings to enable Safe Lambda Deployments. Read the [usage guide](../docs/safe_lambda_deployments.rst) for detailed information.
Layers | list of `string` | List of LayerVersion ARNs that should be used by this function. The order specified here is the order that they will be imported when running the Lambda function. 
AutoPublishAlias | `string` | Name of the Alias. Read [AutoPublishAlias Guide](../docs/safe_lambda_deployments.rst#instant-traffic-shifting-using-lambda-aliases) for how it works
ReservedConcurrentExecutions | `integer` | The maximum of concurrent executions you want to reserve for the function. For more information see [AWS Documentation on managing concurrency](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/concurrent-executions.html)

##### Return values

###### Ref

When the logical ID of this resource is provided to the [Ref](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-ref.html) intrinsic function, it returns the resource name of the underlying Lambda function.

###### Fn::GetAtt

When the logical ID of this resource is provided to the [Fn::GetAtt](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.html) intrinsic function, it returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. This section lists the available attributes.

Attribute Name | Description
---|---
Arn | The ARN of the Lambda function.

###### Referencing Lambda Version & Alias resources

When you use `AutoPublishAlias` property, SAM will generate a Lambda Version and Alias resource for you. If you want to refer to these properties in an intrinsic function such as Ref or Fn::GetAtt, you can append `.Version` or `.Alias` suffix to the function's Logical ID. SAM will convert it to the correct Logical ID of the auto-generated Version or Alias resource respectively.

Example:

Assume the following Serverless Function 

```yaml
Resources:
  MyLambdaFunction:
    Type: AWS::Serverless::Function
    Properties:
      ...
      AutoPublishAlias: live
      ...
```

Version can be referenced as:
```yaml
"Ref": "MyLambdaFunction.Version"
```

Alias can be referenced as:
```yaml
"Ref": "MyLambdaFunction.Alias"
```

This can be used with other intrinsic functions such as "Fn::GetAtt" or "Fn::Sub" or "Fn::Join" as well.

###### Example: AWS::Serverless::Function

```yaml
Handler: index.js
Runtime: nodejs6.10
CodeUri: 's3://my-code-bucket/my-function.zip'
Description: Creates thumbnails of uploaded images
MemorySize: 1024
Timeout: 15
Policies:
 - AWSLambdaExecute # Managed Policy
 - Version: '2012-10-17' # Policy Document
   Statement:
     - Effect: Allow
       Action:
         - s3:GetObject
         - s3:GetObjectACL
       Resource: 'arn:aws:s3:::my-bucket/*'
Environment:
  Variables:
    TABLE_NAME: my-table
Events:
  PhotoUpload:
    Type: S3
    Properties:
      Bucket: my-photo-bucket
Tags:
  AppNameTag: ThumbnailApp
  DepartmentNameTag: ThumbnailDepartment
Layers:
  - !Sub arn:aws:lambda:${AWS:Region}:123456789012:layer:MyLayer:1
```

#### AWS::Serverless::Api

Creates a collection of Amazon API Gateway resources and methods that can be invoked through HTTPS endpoints.

An `AWS::Serverless::Api` resource need not be explicitly added to a AWS Serverless Application Definition template. A resource of this type is implicitly created from the union of [Api](#api) events defined on `AWS::Serverless::Function` resources defined in the template that do not refer to an `AWS::Serverless::Api` resource. An `AWS::Serverless::Api` resource should be used to define and document the API using Swagger, which provides more ability to configure the underlying Amazon API Gateway resources.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Name | `string` | A name for the API Gateway RestApi resource.
StageName | `string` | **Required** The name of the stage, which API Gateway uses as the first path segment in the invoke Uniform Resource Identifier (URI).
DefinitionUri | `string` <span>&#124;</span> [S3 Location Object](#s3-location-object) | S3 URI or location to the Swagger document describing the API. If neither `DefinitionUri` nor `DefinitionBody` are specified, SAM will generate a `DefinitionBody` for you based on your template configuration.
DefinitionBody | `JSON or YAML Object` | Swagger specification that describes your API. If neither `DefinitionUri` nor `DefinitionBody` are specified, SAM will generate a `DefinitionBody` for you based on your template configuration.
CacheClusterEnabled | `boolean` | Indicates whether cache clustering is enabled for the stage.
CacheClusterSize | `string` | The stage's cache cluster size.
Variables | Map of `string` to `string` | A map (string to string map) that defines the stage variables, where the variable name is the key and the variable value is the value. Variable names are limited to alphanumeric characters. Values must match the following regular expression: `[A-Za-z0-9._~:/?#&amp;=,-]+`.
MethodSettings | [CloudFormation MethodSettings property](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-apigateway-stage-methodsetting.html) | Configures all settings for API stage including Logging, Metrics, CacheTTL, Throttling. This value is passed through to CloudFormation. So any values supported by CloudFormation ``MethodSettings`` property can be used here.
EndpointConfiguration | `string` | Specify the type of endpoint for API endpoint. Value is either `REGIONAL`, `EDGE`, or `PRIVATE`.
BinaryMediaTypes | List of `string` |  List of MIME types that your API could return. Use this to enable binary support for APIs. Use `~1` instead of `/` in the mime types (See examples in [template.yaml](../examples/2016-10-31/implicit_api_settings/template.yaml)).
Cors | `string` or [Cors Configuration](#cors-configuration) | Enable CORS for all your APIs. Specify the domain to allow as a string or specify a dictionary with additional [Cors Configuration](#cors-configuration). NOTE: Cors requires SAM to modify your Swagger definition. Hence it works only inline swagger defined with `DefinitionBody`.
Auth | [API Auth Object](#api-auth-object) | Auth configuration for this API. Define Lambda and Cognito `Authorizers` and specify a `DefaultAuthorizer` for this API.


##### Return values

###### Ref

When the logical ID of this resource is provided to the [Ref intrinsic function](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-ref.html), it returns the resource name of the underlying API Gateway RestApi.

##### Example: AWS::Serverless::Api

```yaml
StageName: prod
DefinitionUri: swagger.yml
```

###### Referencing generated resources - Stage & Deployment

SAM will generate an API Gateway Stage and API Gateway Deployment for every `AWS::Serverless::Api` resource. If you want to refer to these properties in an intrinsic function such as Ref or Fn::GetAtt, you can append `.Stage` and `.Deployment` suffix to the API's Logical ID. SAM will convert it to the correct Logical ID of the auto-generated Stage or Deployment resource respectively.

#### AWS::Serverless::Application

Embeds a serverless application from the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://serverlessrepo.aws.amazon.com/) or from an Amazon S3 bucket as a nested application. Nested applications are deployed as nested stacks, which can contain multiple other resources, including other `AWS::Serverless::Application` resources.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Location | `string` or [Application Location Object](#application-location-object) | **Required** Template URL or location of nested application. If a template URL is given, it must follow the format specified in the [CloudFormation TemplateUrl documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-stack.html#cfn-cloudformation-stack-templateurl) and contain a valid CloudFormation or SAM template.
Parameters | Map of `string` to `string` | Application parameter values.
NotificationArns | List of `string` |  A list of existing Amazon SNS topics where notifications about stack events are sent.
Tags | Map of `string` to `string` | A map (string to string) that specifies the [tags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-resource-tags.html) to be added to this application. When the stack is created, SAM will automatically add the following tags: lambda:createdBy:SAM, serverlessrepo:applicationId:\<applicationId>, serverlessrepo:semanticVersion:\<semanticVersion>.
TimeoutInMinutes | `integer` | The length of time, in minutes, that AWS CloudFormation waits for the nested stack to reach the CREATE_COMPLETE state. The default is no timeout. When AWS CloudFormation detects that the nested stack has reached the CREATE_COMPLETE state, it marks the nested stack resource as CREATE_COMPLETE in the parent stack and resumes creating the parent stack. If the timeout period expires before the nested stack reaches CREATE_COMPLETE, AWS CloudFormation marks the nested stack as failed and rolls back both the nested stack and parent stack.

Other provided top-level resource attributes, e.g., Condition, DependsOn, etc, are automatically passed through to the underlying AWS::CloudFormation::Stack resource.


##### Return values

###### Ref

When the logical ID of this resource is provided to the [Ref intrinsic function](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-ref.html), it returns the resource name of the underlying CloudFormation nested stack.

###### Fn::GetAtt

When the logical ID of this resource is provided to the [Fn::GetAtt intrinsic function](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-getatt.html), it returns a value for a specified attribute of this type. This section lists the available attributes.

Attribute Name | Description
---|---
Outputs.*ApplicationOutputName* | The value of the stack output with name *ApplicationOutputName*.

##### Example: AWS::Serverless::Application

```yaml
Resources:
  MyApplication:
    Properties:
      Location:
        ApplicationId: 'arn:aws:serverlessrepo:us-east-1:012345678901:applications/my-application'
        SemanticVersion: 1.0.0
      Parameters:
        StringParameter: parameter-value
        IntegerParameter: 2
  MyOtherApplication:
    Properties:
      Location: https://s3-us-east-1.amazonaws.com/demo-bucket/template.yaml
Outputs:
  MyNestedApplicationOutput:
    Value: !GetAtt MyApplication.Outputs.ApplicationOutputName
    Description: Example nested application output
```

#### AWS::Serverless::SimpleTable

The `AWS::Serverless::SimpleTable` resource creates a DynamoDB table with a single attribute primary key. It is useful when data only needs to be accessed via a primary key. To use the more advanced functionality of DynamoDB, use an [AWS::DynamoDB::Table](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-dynamodb-table.html) resource instead.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
PrimaryKey | [Primary Key Object](#primary-key-object) | Attribute name and type to be used as the table's primary key. **This cannot be modified without replacing the resource.** Defaults to `String` attribute named ID.
ProvisionedThroughput | [Provisioned Throughput Object](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-dynamodb-provisionedthroughput.html) | Read and write throughput provisioning information. Defaults to 5 read and 5 write capacity units per second.
Tags | Map of `string` to `string` | A map (string to string) that specifies the tags to be added to this table. Keys and values are limited to alphanumeric characters. 
TableName | `string` | Name for the DynamoDB Table
SSESpecification | [DynamoDB SSESpecification](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-dynamodb-table-ssespecification.html) | Specifies the settings to enable server-side encryption.

##### Return values

###### Ref

When the logical ID of this resource is provided to the [Ref](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-ref.html) intrinsic function, it returns the resource name of the underlying DynamoDB table.

##### Example: AWS::Serverless::SimpleTable

```yaml
Properties:
  TableName: my-table
  PrimaryKey:
    Name: id
    Type: String
  ProvisionedThroughput:
    ReadCapacityUnits: 5
    WriteCapacityUnits: 5
  Tags:
    Department: Engineering
    AppType: Serverless
  SSESpecification:
    SSEEnabled: true
```

#### AWS::Serverless::LayerVersion

Creates a Lambda LayerVersion that contains library or runtime code needed by a Lambda Function. When a Serverless LayerVersion is transformed, SAM also transforms the logical id of the resource so that old LayerVersions are not automatically deleted by CloudFormation when the resource is updated.

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
LayerName | `string` | Name of this layer. If you don't specify a name, the logical id of the resource will be used as the name.
Description | `string` | Description of this layer.
ContentUri | `string` <span>&#124;</span> [S3 Location Object](#s3-location-object) | **Required.** S3 Uri or location for the layer code.
CompatibleRuntimes | List of `string`| List of runtimes compatible with this LayerVersion.
LicenseInfo | `string` | Information about the license for this LayerVersion.
RetentionPolicy | `string` | Options are `Retain` and `Delete`. Defaults to `Retain`. When `Retain` is set, SAM adds `DeletionPolicy: Retain` to the transformed resource so CloudFormation does not delete old versions after an update.

##### Return values

###### Ref

When the logical ID of this resource is provided to the [Ref](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-ref.html) intrinsic function, it returns the resource ARN of the underlying Lambda LayerVersion.

##### Example: AWS::Serverless::LayerVersion

```yaml
Properties:
  LayerName: MyLayer
  Description: Layer description
  ContentUri: 's3://my-bucket/my-layer.zip'
  CompatibleRuntimes:
    - nodejs6.10
    - nodejs8.10
  LicenseInfo: 'Available under the MIT-0 license.'
  RetentionPolicy: Retain
```


### Event source types
 - [S3](#s3)
 - [SNS](#sns)
 - [Kinesis](#kinesis)
 - [DynamoDB](#dynamodb)
 - [SQS](#sqs)
 - [Api](#api)
 - [Schedule](#schedule)
 - [CloudWatchEvent](#cloudwatchevent)
 - [CloudWatchLogs](#cloudwatchlogs)
 - [IoTRule](#iotrule)
 - [AlexaSkill](#alexaskill)

#### S3

The object describing an event source with type `S3`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Bucket | `string` | **Required.** S3 bucket name.
Events | `string` <span>&#124;</span> List of `string` | **Required.** See [Amazon S3 supported event types](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/NotificationHowTo.html#supported-notification-event-types) for valid values.
Filter | [Amazon S3 notification filter](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-s3-bucket-notificationconfiguration-config-filter.html) | Rules to filter events on.

NOTE: To specify an S3 bucket as an event source for a Lambda function, both resources have to be declared in the same template. AWS SAM does not support specifying an existing bucket as an event source.

##### Example: S3 event source object

```yaml
Type: S3
Properties:
  Bucket: my-photo-bucket
  Events: s3:ObjectCreated:*
```

#### SNS

The object describing an event source with type `SNS`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Topic | `string` | **Required.** Topic ARN.

##### Example: SNS event source object

```yaml
Type: SNS
Properties:
  Topic: arn:aws:sns:us-east-1:123456789012:my_topic
```

#### Kinesis

The object describing an event source with type `Kinesis`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Stream | `string` | **Required.** ARN of the Amazon Kinesis stream.
StartingPosition | `string` | **Required.** One of `TRIM_HORIZON` or `LATEST`.
BatchSize | `integer` | Maximum number of stream records to process per function invocation.

##### Example: Kinesis event source object

```yaml
Type: Kinesis
Properties:
  Stream: arn:aws:kinesis:us-east-1:123456789012:stream/my-stream
  StartingPosition: TRIM_HORIZON
  BatchSize: 10
```

#### DynamoDB

The object describing an event source with type `DynamoDB`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Stream | `string` | **Required.** ARN of the DynamoDB stream.
StartingPosition | `string` | **Required.** One of `TRIM_HORIZON` or `LATEST`.
BatchSize | `integer` | Maximum number of stream records to process per function invocation.

##### Example: DynamoDB event source object

```yaml
Type: DynamoDB
Properties:
  Stream: arn:aws:dynamodb:us-east-1:123456789012:table/TestTable/stream/2016-08-11T21:21:33.291
  StartingPosition: TRIM_HORIZON
  BatchSize: 10
```

#### SQS

The object describing an event source with type `SQS`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Queue | `string` | **Required.** ARN of the SQS queue.
BatchSize | `integer` | Maximum number of messages to process per function invocation.

##### Example: SQS event source object

```yaml
Type: SQS
Properties:
  Queue: arn:aws:sqs:us-west-2:012345678901:my-queue # NOTE: FIFO SQS Queues are not yet supported
  BatchSize: 10
```

#### Api

The object describing an event source with type `Api`.

If an [AWS::Serverless::Api](#aws-serverless-api) resource is defined, the path and method values MUST correspond to an operation in the Swagger definition of the API. If no [AWS::Serverless::Api](#aws-serverless-api) is defined, the function input and output are a representation of the HTTP request and HTTP response. For example, using the JavaScript API, the status code and body of the response can be controlled by returning an object with the keys `statusCode` and `body`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Path | `string` | **Required.** Uri path for which this function is invoked. MUST start with `/`.
Method | `string` | **Required.** HTTP method for which this function is invoked.
RestApiId | `string` | Identifier of a RestApi resource which MUST contain an operation with the given path and method. Typically, this is set to [reference](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/intrinsic-function-reference-ref.html) an `AWS::Serverless::Api` resource defined in this template. If not defined, a default `AWS::Serverless::Api` resource is created using a generated Swagger document contains a union of all paths and methods defined by `Api` events defined in this template that do not specify a RestApiId.
Auth | [Function Auth Object](#function-auth-object) | Auth configuration for this specific Api+Path+Method. Useful for overriding the API's `DefaultAuthorizer` or setting auth config on an individual path when no `DefaultAuthorizer` is specified.

##### Example: Api event source object

```yaml
Type: Api
Properties:
  Path: /photos
  Method: post
```

#### Schedule

The object describing an event source with type `Schedule`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Schedule | `string` | **Required.** Schedule expression, which MUST follow the [schedule expression syntax rules](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/ScheduledEvents.html).
Input | `string` | JSON-formatted string to pass to the function as the event body.

##### Example: Schedule event source object

```yaml
Type: Schedule
Properties:
  Schedule: rate(5 minutes)
```

#### CloudWatchEvent

The object describing an event source with type `CloudWatchEvent`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Pattern | [Event Pattern Object](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/events/CloudWatchEventsandEventPatterns.html) | **Required.** Pattern describing which CloudWatch events trigger the function. Only matching events trigger the function.
Input | `string` | JSON-formatted string to pass to the function as the event body. This value overrides the matched event.
InputPath | `string` | JSONPath describing the part of the event to pass to the function.

##### Example: CloudWatchEvent event source object

```yaml
Type: CloudWatchEvent
Properties:
  Pattern:
    detail:
      state:
        - terminated
```

#### CloudWatchLogs

The object describing an event source with type `CloudWatchLogs`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
LogGroupName | `string` | **Required.** Name of the CloudWatch Log Group from which to process logs.
FilterPattern | `string` | **Required.** A CloudWatch Logs [FilterPattern](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/FilterAndPatternSyntax.html) to specify which logs in the Log Group to process.

##### Example: CloudWatchLogs event source object

```yaml
Type: CloudWatchLogs
Properties:
  LogGroupName: MyLogGroup
  FilterPattern: Error
```

#### IoTRule

The object describing an event source with type `IoTRule`.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Sql | `string` | **Required.** The SQL statement that queries the topic. For more information, see [Rules for AWS IoT](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/iot/latest/developerguide/iot-rules.html#aws-iot-sql-reference) in the *AWS IoT Developer Guide*.
AwsIotSqlVersion | `string` | The version of the SQL rules engine to use when evaluating the rule.

##### Example: IoTRule event source object

```yaml
Type: IoTRule
Properties:
  Sql: "SELECT * FROM 'iot/test'"
```

#### AlexaSkill

The object describing an event source with type `AlexaSkill`.

Specifying `AlexaSkill` event creates a resource policy that allows the Amazon Alexa service to call your Lambda function. To configure the Alexa service to work with your Lambda function, go to the Alexa Developer portal.

### Property types
 - [Environment object](#environment-object)
 - [Event source object](#event-source-object)
 - [Primary key object](#primary-key-object)

#### Environment object

The object describing the environment properties of a function.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Variables | Map of `string` to `string` | A map (string to string map) that defines the environment variables, where the variable name is the key and the variable value is the value. Variable names are limited to alphanumeric characters and the first character must be a letter. Values are limited to alphanumeric characters and the following special characters `_(){}[]$*+-\/"#',;.@!?`.

##### Example: Environment object

```yaml
Variables:
  TABLE_NAME: my-table
  STAGE: prod
```

#### Event source object

The object describing the source of events which trigger the function.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Type | `string` | **Required.** Event type. Event source types include '[S3](#s3), '[Api](#api)', '[SNS](#sns)', '[Kinesis](#kinesis)', '[DynamoDB](#dynamodb)'. For more information about all types, see [Event source types](#event-source-types).
Properties | * | **Required.** Object describing properties of this event mapping. Must conform to the defined `Type`. For more information about all types, see [Event source types](#event-source-types).

##### Example: Event source object

```yaml
Type: S3
Properties:
  Bucket: my-photo-bucket
```

```yaml
Type: AlexaSkill
```

#### Primary key object

The object describing the properties of a primary key.

##### Properties

Property Name | Type | Description
---|:---:|---
Name | `string` | Attribute name of the primary key. Defaults to `id`.
Type | `string` | Attribute type of the primary key. MUST be one of `String`, `Number`, or `Binary`.

##### Example: Primary key object

```yaml
Properties:
  PrimaryKey:
    Name: id
    Type: String
```

### Data Types

- [S3 Location Object](#s3-location-object)
- [Application Location Object](#application-id-object)
- [DeadLetterQueue Object](#deadletterqueue-object)
- [Cors Configuration](#cors-configuration)
- [API Auth Object](#api-auth-object)
- [Function Auth Object](#function-auth-object)

#### S3 Location Object

Specifies the location of an S3 object as a dictionary containing `Bucket`, `Key`, and optional `Version` properties.

Example:

```yaml
CodeUri:
  Bucket: mybucket-name
  Key: code.zip
  Version: 121212
```

#### Application Location Object

Specifies the location of an application hosted in the [AWS Serverless Application Repository](https://aws.amazon.com/serverless/serverlessrepo/) as a dictionary containing ApplicationId and SemanticVersion properties.

Example:

```yaml
Location: # Both parameters are required
  ApplicationId: 'arn:aws:serverlessrepo:us-east-1:012345678901:applications/my-application'
  SemanticVersion: 1.0.0
```

#### DeadLetterQueue Object
Specifies an SQS queue or SNS topic that AWS Lambda (Lambda) sends events to when it can't process them. For more information about DLQ functionality, refer to the officiall documentation at http://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/dlq.html. SAM will automatically add appropriate permission to your Lambda function execution role to give Lambda service access to the resource. `sqs:SendMessage` will be added for SQS queues and `sns:Publish` for SNS topics.

Syntax:

```yaml
DeadLetterQueue:
  Type: `SQS` or `SNS` 
  TargetArn: ARN of the SQS queue or SNS topic to use as DLQ. 
```

#### DeploymentPreference Object
Specifies the configurations to enable Safe Lambda Deployments. Read the [usage guide](../docs/safe_lambda_deployments.rst) for detailed information. The following shows all available properties of this object

```yaml
DeploymentPreference:
  Enabled: true
  Type: Linear10PercentEvery10Minutes
  Alarms:
    # A list of alarms that you want to monitor
    - !Ref AliasErrorMetricGreaterThanZeroAlarm
    - !Ref LatestVersionErrorMetricGreaterThanZeroAlarm
  Hooks:
    # Validation Lambda functions that are run before & after traffic shifting
    PreTraffic: !Ref PreTrafficLambdaFunction
    PostTraffic: !Ref PostTrafficLambdaFunction
```

#### Cors Configuration
Enable and configure CORS for the APIs. Enabling CORS will allow your API to be called from other domains. Assume your API is served from 'www.example.com' and you want to allow.

```yaml
Cors:
  AllowMethods: Optional. String containing the HTTP methods to allow. 
  # For example, "'GET,POST,DELETE'". If you omit this property, then SAM will automatically allow all the methods configured for each API. 
  # Checkout [HTTP Spec](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Methods) more details on the value.

  AllowHeaders: Optional. String of headers to allow. 
  # For example, "'X-Forwarded-For'". Checkout [HTTP Spec](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Headers) for more details on the value

  AllowOrigin: Required. String of origin to allow. 
  # For example, "'www.example.com'". Checkout [HTTP Spec](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Allow-Origin) for more details on this value.

  MaxAge: Optional. String containing the number of seconds to cache CORS Preflight request. 
  # For example, "'600'" will cache request for 600 seconds. Checkout [HTTP Spec](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Access-Control-Max-Age) for more details on this value
```

> NOTE: HTTP spec requires the value of Allow properties to be a quoted string. So don't forget the additional quotes in the value. ie. "'www.example.com'" is correct whereas "www.example.com" is wrong

#### API Auth Object

Configure Auth on APIs. Define Lambda and Cognito `Authorizers` and specify a `DefaultAuthorizer`. For more information, see the documentation on [Lambda Authorizers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-use-lambda-authorizer.html) and [Amazon Cognito User Pool Authorizers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/apigateway/latest/developerguide/apigateway-integrate-with-cognito.html).

```yaml
Auth:
  DefaultAuthorizer: MyCognitoAuth # OPTIONAL
  Authorizers:
    MyCognitoAuth:
      UserPoolArn: !GetAtt MyCognitoUserPool.Arn # Can also accept an array
      Identity: # OPTIONAL
        Header: MyAuthorizationHeader # OPTIONAL; Default: 'Authorization'
        ValidationExpression: myauthvalidationexpression # OPTIONAL

    MyLambdaTokenAuth:
      FunctionPayloadType: TOKEN # OPTIONAL; Defaults to 'TOKEN' when `FunctionArn` is specified
      FunctionArn: !GetAtt MyAuthFunction.Arn
      FunctionInvokeRole: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/S3Access # OPTIONAL
      Identity:
        Header: MyCustomAuthHeader # OPTIONAL; Default: 'Authorization'
        ValidationExpression: mycustomauthexpression # OPTIONAL
        ReauthorizeEvery: 20 # OPTIONAL; Service Default: 300

    MyLambdaRequestAuth:
      FunctionPayloadType: REQUEST
      FunctionArn: !GetAtt MyAuthFunction.Arn
      FunctionInvokeRole: arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/S3Access # OPTIONAL
      Identity:
        # Must specify at least one of Headers, QueryStrings, StageVariables, or Context
        Headers: # OPTIONAL
          - Authorization1
        QueryStrings: # OPTIONAL
          - Authorization2
        StageVariables: # OPTIONAL
          - Authorization3
        Context: # OPTIONAL
          - Authorization4
        ReauthorizeEvery: 0 # OPTIONAL; Service Default: 300
```

#### Function Auth Object

Configure Auth for a specific Api+Path+Method.

```yaml
Auth:
  Authorizer: MyCognitoAuth # OPTIONAL
```
