# CDK Feature Flags

[CDK Feature Flags](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/featureflags.html) are a mechanism that allows the CDK to evolve and change the behavior of certain classes and methods, without causing disruption to existing deployed infrastructure.

Feature flags are [context values](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/context.html) and can be configured using any of the context management methods, at any level of the construct tree. Commonly, they are specified in the `cdk.json` file.
`cdk init` will create new CDK projects with a `cdk.json` file containing all recommended feature flags enabled.

## Feature flag table

Flags come in three types:

- **Default change**: The default behavior of an API has been changed in order to improve its ergonomics. The old behavior can still be achieved, but requires source changes.
- **Fix/deprecation**: The old behavior was incorrect or not recommended for new users. The only way to keep it is to not set this flag.
- **Config**: Configurable behavior that we recommend you turn on.

<!-- BEGIN table -->

| Flag | Summary | Since | Type | Recommended |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| @aws-cdk/core:newStyleStackSynthesis | Switch to new stack synthesis method which enables CI/CD | 2.0.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/core:stackRelativeExports | Name exports based on the construct paths relative to the stack, rather than the global construct path | 2.0.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-rds:lowercaseDbIdentifier | Force lowercasing of RDS Cluster names in CDK | 2.0.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-apigateway:usagePlanKeyOrderInsensitiveId | Allow adding/removing multiple UsagePlanKeys independently | 2.0.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-lambda:recognizeVersionProps | Enable this feature flag to opt in to the updated logical id calculation for Lambda Version created using the  `fn.currentVersion`. | 2.0.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-cloudfront:defaultSecurityPolicyTLSv1.2_2021 | Enable this feature flag to have cloudfront distributions use the security policy TLSv1.2_2021 by default. | 2.0.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/core:target-partitions | What regions to include in lookup tables of environment agnostic stacks | 2.4.0 | (config) | `["aws","aws-cn"]` |
| @aws-cdk-containers/ecs-service-extensions:enableDefaultLogDriver | ECS extensions will automatically add an `awslogs` driver if no logging is specified | 2.8.0 | (default) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-ec2:uniqueImdsv2TemplateName | Enable this feature flag to have Launch Templates generated by the `InstanceRequireImdsv2Aspect` use unique names. | 2.8.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-iam:minimizePolicies | Minimize IAM policies by combining Statements | 2.18.0 | (config) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/core:checkSecretUsage | Enable this flag to make it impossible to accidentally use SecretValues in unsafe locations | 2.21.0 | (config) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-lambda:recognizeLayerVersion | Enable this feature flag to opt in to the updated logical id calculation for Lambda Version created using the `fn.currentVersion`. | 2.27.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/core:validateSnapshotRemovalPolicy | Error on snapshot removal policies on resources that do not support it. | 2.28.0 | (default) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-codepipeline:crossAccountKeyAliasStackSafeResourceName | Generate key aliases that include the stack name | 2.29.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-s3:createDefaultLoggingPolicy | Enable this feature flag to create an S3 bucket policy by default in cases where an AWS service would automatically create the Policy if one does not exist. | 2.31.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-sns-subscriptions:restrictSqsDescryption | Restrict KMS key policy for encrypted Queues a bit more | 2.32.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-ecs:arnFormatIncludesClusterName | ARN format used by ECS. In the new ARN format, the cluster name is part of the resource ID. | 2.35.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-apigateway:disableCloudWatchRole | Make default CloudWatch Role behavior safe for multiple API Gateways in one environment | 2.38.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/core:enablePartitionLiterals | Make ARNs concrete if AWS partition is known | 2.38.0 | (fix) | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-events:eventsTargetQueueSameAccount | Event Rules may only push to encrypted SQS queues in the same account | 2.51.0 | (fix) | `true` |

<!-- END table -->

## Feature flag details

Here are more details about each of the flags:

<!-- BEGIN details -->
### @aws-cdk/core:newStyleStackSynthesis

Switch to new stack synthesis method which enables CI/CD (fix)

If this flag is specified, all `Stack`s will use the `DefaultStackSynthesizer` by
default. If it is not set, they will use the `LegacyStackSynthesizer`.

Introduced in **2.0.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/core:stackRelativeExports

Name exports based on the construct paths relative to the stack, rather than the global construct path (fix)

Combined with the stack name this relative construct path is good enough to
ensure uniqueness, and makes the export names robust against refactoring
the location of the stack in the construct tree (specifically, moving the Stack
into a Stage).

Introduced in **2.0.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-rds:lowercaseDbIdentifier

Force lowercasing of RDS Cluster names in CDK (fix)

Cluster names must be lowercase, and the service will lowercase the name when the cluster
is created. However, CDK did not use to know about this, and would use the user-provided name
referencing the cluster, which would fail if it happened to be mixed-case.

With this flag, lowercase the name in CDK so we can reference it properly.

Must be behind a permanent flag because changing a name from mixed case to lowercase between deployments
would lead CloudFormation to think the name was changed and would trigger a cluster replacement
(losing data!).

Introduced in **2.0.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-apigateway:usagePlanKeyOrderInsensitiveId

Allow adding/removing multiple UsagePlanKeys independently (fix)

The UsagePlanKey resource connects an ApiKey with a UsagePlan. API Gateway does not allow more than one UsagePlanKey
for any given UsagePlan and ApiKey combination. For this reason, CloudFormation cannot replace this resource without
either the UsagePlan or ApiKey changing.

The feature addition to support multiple UsagePlanKey resources - 142bd0e2 - recognized this and attempted to keep
existing UsagePlanKey logical ids unchanged.
However, this intentionally caused the logical id of the UsagePlanKey to be sensitive to order. That is, when
the 'first' UsagePlanKey resource is removed, the logical id of the 'second' assumes what was originally the 'first',
which again is disallowed.

In effect, there is no way to get out of this mess in a backwards compatible way, while supporting existing stacks.
This flag changes the logical id layout of UsagePlanKey to not be sensitive to order.

Introduced in **2.0.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-lambda:recognizeVersionProps

Enable this feature flag to opt in to the updated logical id calculation for Lambda Version created using the  `fn.currentVersion`. (fix)

The previous calculation incorrectly considered properties of the `AWS::Lambda::Function` resource that did
not constitute creating a new Version.

See 'currentVersion' section in the aws-lambda module's README for more details.

Introduced in **2.0.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-cloudfront:defaultSecurityPolicyTLSv1.2_2021

Enable this feature flag to have cloudfront distributions use the security policy TLSv1.2_2021 by default. (fix)

The security policy can also be configured explicitly using the `minimumProtocolVersion` property.

Introduced in **2.0.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/core:target-partitions

What regions to include in lookup tables of environment agnostic stacks (config)

Has no effect on stacks that have a defined region, but will limit the amount
of unnecessary regions included in stacks without a known region.

The type of this value should be a list of strings.

Introduced in **2.4.0**, recommended value `["aws","aws-cn"]`.

### @aws-cdk-containers/ecs-service-extensions:enableDefaultLogDriver

ECS extensions will automatically add an `awslogs` driver if no logging is specified (default)

Enable this feature flag to configure default logging behavior for the ECS Service Extensions. This will enable the
`awslogs` log driver for the application container of the service to send the container logs to CloudWatch Logs.

This is a feature flag as the new behavior provides a better default experience for the users.

Introduced in **2.8.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-ec2:uniqueImdsv2TemplateName

Enable this feature flag to have Launch Templates generated by the `InstanceRequireImdsv2Aspect` use unique names. (fix)

Previously, the generated Launch Template names were only unique within a stack because they were based only on the
`Instance` construct ID. If another stack that has an `Instance` with the same construct ID is deployed in the same
account and region, the deployments would always fail as the generated Launch Template names were the same.

The new implementation addresses this issue by generating the Launch Template name with the `Names.uniqueId` method.

Introduced in **2.8.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-iam:minimizePolicies

Minimize IAM policies by combining Statements (config)

Minimize IAM policies by combining Principals, Actions and Resources of two
Statements in the policies, as long as it doesn't change the meaning of the
policy.

Introduced in **2.18.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/core:checkSecretUsage

Enable this flag to make it impossible to accidentally use SecretValues in unsafe locations (config)

With this flag enabled, `SecretValue` instances can only be passed to
constructs that accept `SecretValue`s; otherwise, `unsafeUnwrap()` must be
called to use it as a regular string.

Introduced in **2.21.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-lambda:recognizeLayerVersion

Enable this feature flag to opt in to the updated logical id calculation for Lambda Version created using the `fn.currentVersion`. (fix)

This flag correct incorporates Lambda Layer properties into the Lambda Function Version.

See 'currentVersion' section in the aws-lambda module's README for more details.

Introduced in **2.27.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/core:validateSnapshotRemovalPolicy

Error on snapshot removal policies on resources that do not support it. (default)

Makes sure we do not allow snapshot removal policy on resources that do not support it.
If supplied on an unsupported resource, CloudFormation ignores the policy altogether.
This flag will reduce confusion and unexpected loss of data when erroneously supplying
the snapshot removal policy.

Introduced in **2.28.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-codepipeline:crossAccountKeyAliasStackSafeResourceName

Generate key aliases that include the stack name (fix)

Enable this feature flag to have CodePipeline generate a unique cross account key alias name using the stack name.

Previously, when creating multiple pipelines with similar naming conventions and when crossAccountKeys is true,
the KMS key alias name created for these pipelines may be the same due to how the uniqueId is generated.

This new implementation creates a stack safe resource name for the alias using the stack name instead of the stack ID.

Introduced in **2.29.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-s3:createDefaultLoggingPolicy

Enable this feature flag to create an S3 bucket policy by default in cases where an AWS service would automatically create the Policy if one does not exist. (fix)

For example, in order to send VPC flow logs to an S3 bucket, there is a specific Bucket Policy
that needs to be attached to the bucket. If you create the bucket without a policy and then add the
bucket as the flow log destination, the service will automatically create the bucket policy with the
necessary permissions. If you were to then try and add your own bucket policy CloudFormation will throw
and error indicating that a bucket policy already exists.

In cases where we know what the required policy is we can go ahead and create the policy so we can
remain in control of it.

@see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/logs/AWS-logs-and-resource-policy.html#AWS-logs-infrastructure-S3

Introduced in **2.31.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-sns-subscriptions:restrictSqsDescryption

Restrict KMS key policy for encrypted Queues a bit more (fix)

Enable this feature flag to restrict the decryption of a SQS queue, which is subscribed to a SNS topic, to
only the topic which it is subscribed to and not the whole SNS service of an account.

Previously the decryption was only restricted to the SNS service principal. To make the SQS subscription more
secure, it is a good practice to restrict the decryption further and only allow the connected SNS topic to decryption
the subscribed queue.

Introduced in **2.32.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-ecs:arnFormatIncludesClusterName

ARN format used by ECS. In the new ARN format, the cluster name is part of the resource ID. (fix)

If this flag is not set, the old ARN format (without cluster name) for ECS is used.
If this flag is set, the new ARN format (with cluster name) for ECS is used.

This is a feature flag as the old format is still valid for existing ECS clusters.

See https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECS/latest/developerguide/ecs-account-settings.html#ecs-resource-ids

Introduced in **2.35.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-apigateway:disableCloudWatchRole

Make default CloudWatch Role behavior safe for multiple API Gateways in one environment (fix)

Enable this feature flag to change the default behavior for aws-apigateway.RestApi and aws-apigateway.SpecRestApi
to _not_ create a CloudWatch role and Account. There is only a single ApiGateway account per AWS
environment which means that each time you create a RestApi in your account the ApiGateway account
is overwritten. If at some point the newest RestApi is deleted, the ApiGateway Account and CloudWatch
role will also be deleted, breaking any existing ApiGateways that were depending on them.

When this flag is enabled you should either create the ApiGateway account and CloudWatch role
separately _or_ only enable the cloudWatchRole on a single RestApi.

Introduced in **2.38.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/core:enablePartitionLiterals

Make ARNs concrete if AWS partition is known (fix)

Enable this feature flag to get partition names as string literals in Stacks with known regions defined in
their environment, such as "aws" or "aws-cn".  Previously the CloudFormation intrinsic function
"Ref: AWS::Partition" was used.  For example:

```yaml
Principal:
  AWS:
    Fn::Join:
      - ""
      - - "arn:"
        - Ref: AWS::Partition
        - :iam::123456789876:root
```

becomes:

```
Principal:
  AWS: "arn:aws:iam::123456789876:root"
```

The intrinsic function will still be used in Stacks where no region is defined or the region's partition
is unknown.

Introduced in **2.38.0**, recommended value `true`.

### @aws-cdk/aws-events:eventsTargetQueueSameAccount

Event Rules may only push to encrypted SQS queues in the same account (fix)

This flag applies to SQS Queues that are used as the target of event Rules. When enabled, only principals
from the same account as the Queue can send messages. If a queue is unencrypted, this restriction will
always apply, regardless of the value of this flag.

Introduced in **2.51.0**, recommended value `true`.

<!-- END details -->

## Currently recommended cdk.json

The following json shows the current recommended set of flags, as `cdk init` would generate it for new projects.

<!-- BEGIN json -->
```json
{
  "context": {
    "@aws-cdk/aws-lambda:recognizeLayerVersion": true,
    "@aws-cdk/core:checkSecretUsage": true,
    "@aws-cdk/core:target-partitions": [
      "aws",
      "aws-cn"
    ],
    "@aws-cdk-containers/ecs-service-extensions:enableDefaultLogDriver": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-ec2:uniqueImdsv2TemplateName": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-ecs:arnFormatIncludesClusterName": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-iam:minimizePolicies": true,
    "@aws-cdk/core:validateSnapshotRemovalPolicy": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-codepipeline:crossAccountKeyAliasStackSafeResourceName": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-s3:createDefaultLoggingPolicy": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-sns-subscriptions:restrictSqsDescryption": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-apigateway:disableCloudWatchRole": true,
    "@aws-cdk/core:enablePartitionLiterals": true,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-events:eventsTargetQueueSameAccount": true
  }
}
```
<!-- END json -->

## Flags removed in v2

These **default change** flags have been removed in v2. These used to be configurable in v1, but in v2 their
behavior has become the default. Remove these from your `cdk.json` file.

<!-- BEGIN removed -->

| Flag | Summary | Type | Since | Value in v2 |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| @aws-cdk/core:enableStackNameDuplicates | Allow multiple stacks with the same name | (default) | 1.16.0 | `true` |
| aws-cdk:enableDiffNoFail | Make `cdk diff` not fail when there are differences | (default) | 1.19.0 | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-ecr-assets:dockerIgnoreSupport | DockerImageAsset properly supports `.dockerignore` files by default | (default) | 1.73.0 | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-secretsmanager:parseOwnedSecretName | Fix the referencing of SecretsManager names from ARNs | (default) | 1.77.0 | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-kms:defaultKeyPolicies | Tighten default KMS key policies | (default) | 1.78.0 | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-s3:grantWriteWithoutAcl | Remove `PutObjectAcl` from Bucket.grantWrite | (default) | 1.85.0 | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-ecs-patterns:removeDefaultDesiredCount | Do not specify a default DesiredCount for ECS services | (default) | 1.92.0 | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-efs:defaultEncryptionAtRest | Enable this feature flag to have elastic file systems encrypted at rest by default. | (default) | 1.98.0 | `true` |

<!-- END removed -->

## Flags with a different default in v2

These **fix/deprecation** flags are still configurable in v2, but their default has changed compared to v1. If you
are migrating a v1 CDK project to v2, explicitly set any of these flags which does not currently appear in your
`cdk.json` to `false`, to avoid unexpected infrastructure changes.

<!-- BEGIN diff -->

| Flag | Summary | Type | Since | v1 default | v2 default |
| ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- | ----- |
| @aws-cdk/core:newStyleStackSynthesis | Switch to new stack synthesis method which enables CI/CD | (fix) | 1.39.0 | `false` | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/core:stackRelativeExports | Name exports based on the construct paths relative to the stack, rather than the global construct path | (fix) | 1.58.0 | `false` | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-rds:lowercaseDbIdentifier | Force lowercasing of RDS Cluster names in CDK | (fix) | 1.97.0 | `false` | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-apigateway:usagePlanKeyOrderInsensitiveId | Allow adding/removing multiple UsagePlanKeys independently | (fix) | 1.98.0 | `false` | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-lambda:recognizeVersionProps | Enable this feature flag to opt in to the updated logical id calculation for Lambda Version created using the  `fn.currentVersion`. | (fix) | 1.106.0 | `false` | `true` |
| @aws-cdk/aws-cloudfront:defaultSecurityPolicyTLSv1.2_2021 | Enable this feature flag to have cloudfront distributions use the security policy TLSv1.2_2021 by default. | (fix) | 1.117.0 | `false` | `true` |

<!-- END diff -->

Here is an example of a `cdk.json` file that restores v1 behavior for these flags:

<!-- BEGIN migratejson -->
```json
{
  "context": {
    "@aws-cdk/core:newStyleStackSynthesis": false,
    "@aws-cdk/core:stackRelativeExports": false,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-rds:lowercaseDbIdentifier": false,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-apigateway:usagePlanKeyOrderInsensitiveId": false,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-lambda:recognizeVersionProps": false,
    "@aws-cdk/aws-cloudfront:defaultSecurityPolicyTLSv1.2_2021": false
  }
}
```
<!-- END migratejson -->