packages/@aws-cdk/assertions/README.md, before:

# Assertions
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cdk-constructs: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

If you're migrating from the old `assert` library, the migration guide can be found in
[our GitHub repository](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/main/packages/@aws-cdk/assertions/MIGRATING.md).

Functions for writing test asserting against CDK applications, with focus on CloudFormation templates.

The `Template` class includes a set of methods for writing assertions against CloudFormation templates. Use one of the `Template.fromXxx()` static methods to create an instance of this class.

To create `Template` from CDK stack, start off with:

```ts nofixture
import { Stack } from '@aws-cdk/core';
import { Template } from '@aws-cdk/assertions';

const stack = new Stack(/* ... */);
// ...
const template = Template.fromStack(stack);
```

Alternatively, assertions can be run on an existing CloudFormation template -

```ts fixture=init
const templateJson = '{ "Resources": ... }'; /* The CloudFormation template as JSON serialized string. */
const template = Template.fromString(templateJson);
```

## Full Template Match

The simplest assertion would be to assert that the template matches a given
template.

```ts
template.templateMatches({
  Resources: {
    BarLogicalId: {
      Type: 'Foo::Bar',
      Properties: {
        Baz: 'Qux',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

By default, the `templateMatches()` API will use the an 'object-like' comparison,
which means that it will allow for the actual template to be a superset of the
given expectation. See [Special Matchers](#special-matchers) for details on how
to change this.

Snapshot testing is a common technique to store a snapshot of the output and
compare it during future changes. Since CloudFormation templates are human readable,
they are a good target for snapshot testing.

The `toJSON()` method on the `Template` can be used to produce a well formatted JSON
of the CloudFormation template that can be used as a snapshot.

See [Snapshot Testing in Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) and [Snapshot
Testing in Java](https://json-snapshot.github.io/).

## Counting Resources

This module allows asserting the number of resources of a specific type found
in a template.

```ts
template.resourceCountIs('Foo::Bar', 2);
```

## Resource Matching & Retrieval

Beyond resource counting, the module also allows asserting that a resource with
specific properties are present.

The following code asserts that the `Properties` section of a resource of type
`Foo::Bar` contains the specified properties -

```ts
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Foo: 'Bar',
  Baz: 5,
  Qux: [ 'Waldo', 'Fred' ],
});
```

Alternatively, if you would like to assert the entire resource definition, you
can use the `hasResource()` API.

```ts
template.hasResource('Foo::Bar', {
  Properties: { Foo: 'Bar' },
  DependsOn: [ 'Waldo', 'Fred' ],
});
```

Beyond assertions, the module provides APIs to retrieve matching resources.
The `findResources()` API is complementary to the `hasResource()` API, except,
instead of asserting its presence, it returns the set of matching resources.

By default, the `hasResource()` and `hasResourceProperties()` APIs perform deep
partial object matching. This behavior can be configured using matchers.
See subsequent section on [special matchers](#special-matchers).

## Output and Mapping sections

The module allows you to assert that the CloudFormation template contains an Output
that matches specific properties. The following code asserts that a template contains
an Output with a `logicalId` of `Foo` and the specified properties -

```ts
const expected = { 
  Value: 'Bar',
  Export: { Name: 'ExportBaz' }, 
};
template.hasOutput('Foo', expected);
```

If you want to match against all Outputs in the template, use `*` as the `logicalId`.

```ts
template.hasOutput('*', {
  Value: 'Bar',
  Export: { Name: 'ExportBaz' },
});
```

`findOutputs()` will return a set of outputs that match the `logicalId` and `props`,
and you can use the `'*'` special case as well.

```ts
const result = template.findOutputs('*', { Value: 'Fred' });
expect(result.Foo).toEqual({ Value: 'Fred', Description: 'FooFred' });
expect(result.Bar).toEqual({ Value: 'Fred', Description: 'BarFred' });
```

The APIs `hasMapping()`, `findMappings()`, `hasCondition()`, and `hasCondtions()` provide similar functionalities.

## Special Matchers

The expectation provided to the `hasXxx()`, `findXxx()` and `templateMatches()`
APIs, besides carrying literal values, as seen in the above examples, also accept
special matchers. 

They are available as part of the `Match` class.

### Object Matchers

The `Match.objectLike()` API can be used to assert that the target is a superset
object of the provided pattern.
This API will perform a deep partial match on the target.
Deep partial matching is where objects are matched partially recursively. At each
level, the list of keys in the target is a subset of the provided pattern.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": {
//           "Wobble": "Flob",
//           "Bob": "Cat"
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Wobble: 'Flob',
  }),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Brew: 'Coffee',
  }),
});
```

The `Match.objectEquals()` API can be used to assert a target as a deep exact
match.

### Presence and Absence

The `Match.absent()` matcher can be used to specify that a specific
value should not exist on the target. This can be used within `Match.objectLike()`
or outside of any matchers.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": {
//           "Wobble": "Flob",
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Bob: Match.absent(),
  }),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Wobble: Match.absent(),
  }),
});
```

The `Match.anyValue()` matcher can be used to specify that a specific value should be found
at the location. This matcher will fail if when the target location has null-ish values
(i.e., `null` or `undefined`).

This matcher can be combined with any of the other matchers.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": {
//           "Wobble": ["Flob", "Flib"],
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: {
    Wobble: [ Match.anyValue(), Match.anyValue() ],
  },
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: {
    Wimble: Match.anyValue(),
  },
});
```

### Array Matchers

The `Match.arrayWith()` API can be used to assert that the target is equal to or a subset
of the provided pattern array.
This API will perform subset match on the target.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"]
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.arrayWith(['Flob']),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', Match.objectLike({
  Fred: Match.arrayWith(['Wobble']),
}));
```

*Note:* The list of items in the pattern array should be in order as they appear in the
target array. Out of order will be recorded as a match failure.

Alternatively, the `Match.arrayEquals()` API can be used to assert that the target is
exactly equal to the pattern array.

### String Matchers

The `Match.stringLikeRegexp()` API can be used to assert that the target matches the
provided regular expression.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Template": "const includeHeaders = true;"
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Template: Match.stringLikeRegexp('includeHeaders = (true|false)'),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Template: Match.stringLikeRegexp('includeHeaders = null'),
});
```

### Not Matcher

The not matcher inverts the search pattern and matches all patterns in the path that does
not match the pattern specified.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"]
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.not(['Flob']),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', Match.objectLike({
  Fred: Match.not(['Flob', 'Cat']),
}));
```

### Serialized JSON

Often, we find that some CloudFormation Resource types declare properties as a string,
but actually expect JSON serialized as a string.
For example, the [`BuildSpec` property of `AWS::CodeBuild::Project`][Pipeline BuildSpec],
the [`Definition` property of `AWS::StepFunctions::StateMachine`][StateMachine Definition],
to name a couple.

The `Match.serializedJson()` matcher allows deep matching within a stringified JSON.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Baz": "{ \"Fred\": [\"Waldo\", \"Willow\"] }"
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Baz: Match.serializedJson({
    Fred: Match.arrayWith(["Waldo"]),
  }),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Baz: Match.serializedJson({
    Fred: ["Waldo", "Johnny"],
  }),
});
```

[Pipeline BuildSpec]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-codebuild-project-source.html#cfn-codebuild-project-source-buildspec
[StateMachine Definition]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-stepfunctions-statemachine.html#cfn-stepfunctions-statemachine-definition

## Capturing Values

The matcher APIs documented above allow capturing values in the matching entry
(Resource, Output, Mapping, etc.). The following code captures a string from a
matching resource.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"],
//         "Waldo": ["Qix", "Qux"],
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

const fredCapture = new Capture();
const waldoCapture = new Capture();
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: fredCapture,
  Waldo: ["Qix", waldoCapture],
});

fredCapture.asArray(); // returns ["Flob", "Cat"]
waldoCapture.asString(); // returns "Qux"
```

With captures, a nested pattern can also be specified, so that only targets
that match the nested pattern will be captured. This pattern can be literals or
further Matchers.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar1": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"],
//       }
//     }
//     "MyBar2": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Qix", "Qux"],
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

const capture = new Capture(Match.arrayWith(['Cat']));
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: capture,
});

capture.asArray(); // returns ['Flob', 'Cat']
```

When multiple resources match the given condition, each `Capture` defined in
the condition will capture all matching values. They can be paged through using
the `next()` API. The following example illustrates this -

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": "Flob",
//       }
//     },
//     "MyBaz": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": "Quib",
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

const fredCapture = new Capture();
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: fredCapture,
});

fredCapture.asString(); // returns "Flob"
fredCapture.next();     // returns true
fredCapture.asString(); // returns "Quib"
```

## Asserting Annotations

In addition to template matching, we provide an API for annotation matching.
[Annotations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/aws-cdk-lib.Annotations.html)
can be added via the [Aspects](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/aws-cdk-lib.Aspects.html)
API. You can learn more about Aspects [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/aspects.html).

Say you have a `MyAspect` and a `MyStack` that uses `MyAspect`:

```ts nofixture
import * as cdk from '@aws-cdk/core';
import { Construct, IConstruct } from 'constructs';

class MyAspect implements cdk.IAspect {
  public visit(node: IConstruct): void {
    if (node instanceof cdk.CfnResource && node.cfnResourceType === 'Foo::Bar') {
      this.error(node, 'we do not want a Foo::Bar resource');
    }
  }

  protected error(node: IConstruct, message: string): void {
    cdk.Annotations.of(node).addError(message);
  }
}

class MyStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string) {
    super(scope, id);

    const stack = new cdk.Stack();
    new cdk.CfnResource(stack, 'Foo', {
      type: 'Foo::Bar',
      properties: {
        Fred: 'Thud',
      },
    });
    cdk.Aspects.of(stack).add(new MyAspect());
  }
}
```

We can then assert that the stack contains the expected Error:

```ts
// import { Annotations } from '@aws-cdk/assertions';

Annotations.fromStack(stack).hasError(
  '/Default/Foo',
  'we do not want a Foo::Bar resource',
);
```

Here are the available APIs for `Annotations`:

- `hasError()`, `hasNoError()`, and `findError()`
- `hasWarning()`, `hasNoWarning()`, and `findWarning()`
- `hasInfo()`, `hasNoInfo()`, and `findInfo()`

The corresponding `findXxx()` API is complementary to the `hasXxx()` API, except instead
of asserting its presence, it returns the set of matching messages.

In addition, this suite of APIs is compatable with `Matchers` for more fine-grained control.
For example, the following assertion works as well:

```ts
Annotations.fromStack(stack).hasError(
  '/Default/Foo',
  Match.stringLikeRegexp('.*Foo::Bar.*'),
);
```

Commit message:

feat(assertions): adds Template.resourcePropertiesCountIs()
This PR adds the `Template.resourcePropertiesCountIs()` method
for counting the number of resources of a specified type whose
`Properties` section matches given properties.

packages/@aws-cdk/assertions/README.md, after:

# Assertions
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cdk-constructs: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

If you're migrating from the old `assert` library, the migration guide can be found in
[our GitHub repository](https://github.com/aws/aws-cdk/blob/main/packages/@aws-cdk/assertions/MIGRATING.md).

Functions for writing test asserting against CDK applications, with focus on CloudFormation templates.

The `Template` class includes a set of methods for writing assertions against CloudFormation templates. Use one of the `Template.fromXxx()` static methods to create an instance of this class.

To create `Template` from CDK stack, start off with:

```ts nofixture
import { Stack } from '@aws-cdk/core';
import { Template } from '@aws-cdk/assertions';

const stack = new Stack(/* ... */);
// ...
const template = Template.fromStack(stack);
```

Alternatively, assertions can be run on an existing CloudFormation template -

```ts fixture=init
const templateJson = '{ "Resources": ... }'; /* The CloudFormation template as JSON serialized string. */
const template = Template.fromString(templateJson);
```

## Full Template Match

The simplest assertion would be to assert that the template matches a given
template.

```ts
template.templateMatches({
  Resources: {
    BarLogicalId: {
      Type: 'Foo::Bar',
      Properties: {
        Baz: 'Qux',
      },
    },
  },
});
```

By default, the `templateMatches()` API will use the an 'object-like' comparison,
which means that it will allow for the actual template to be a superset of the
given expectation. See [Special Matchers](#special-matchers) for details on how
to change this.

Snapshot testing is a common technique to store a snapshot of the output and
compare it during future changes. Since CloudFormation templates are human readable,
they are a good target for snapshot testing.

The `toJSON()` method on the `Template` can be used to produce a well formatted JSON
of the CloudFormation template that can be used as a snapshot.

See [Snapshot Testing in Jest](https://jestjs.io/docs/snapshot-testing) and [Snapshot
Testing in Java](https://json-snapshot.github.io/).

## Counting Resources

This module allows asserting the number of resources of a specific type found
in a template.

```ts
template.resourceCountIs('Foo::Bar', 2);
```

You can also count the number of resources of a specific type whose `Properties`
section contains the specified properties:

```ts
template.resourcePropertiesCountIs('Foo::Bar', {
  Foo: 'Bar',
  Baz: 5,
  Qux: [ 'Waldo', 'Fred' ],
}, 1);
```

## Resource Matching & Retrieval

Beyond resource counting, the module also allows asserting that a resource with
specific properties are present.

The following code asserts that the `Properties` section of a resource of type
`Foo::Bar` contains the specified properties -

```ts
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Foo: 'Bar',
  Baz: 5,
  Qux: [ 'Waldo', 'Fred' ],
});
```

Alternatively, if you would like to assert the entire resource definition, you
can use the `hasResource()` API.

```ts
template.hasResource('Foo::Bar', {
  Properties: { Foo: 'Bar' },
  DependsOn: [ 'Waldo', 'Fred' ],
});
```

Beyond assertions, the module provides APIs to retrieve matching resources.
The `findResources()` API is complementary to the `hasResource()` API, except,
instead of asserting its presence, it returns the set of matching resources.

By default, the `hasResource()` and `hasResourceProperties()` APIs perform deep
partial object matching. This behavior can be configured using matchers.
See subsequent section on [special matchers](#special-matchers).

## Output and Mapping sections

The module allows you to assert that the CloudFormation template contains an Output
that matches specific properties. The following code asserts that a template contains
an Output with a `logicalId` of `Foo` and the specified properties -

```ts
const expected = { 
  Value: 'Bar',
  Export: { Name: 'ExportBaz' }, 
};
template.hasOutput('Foo', expected);
```

If you want to match against all Outputs in the template, use `*` as the `logicalId`.

```ts
template.hasOutput('*', {
  Value: 'Bar',
  Export: { Name: 'ExportBaz' },
});
```

`findOutputs()` will return a set of outputs that match the `logicalId` and `props`,
and you can use the `'*'` special case as well.

```ts
const result = template.findOutputs('*', { Value: 'Fred' });
expect(result.Foo).toEqual({ Value: 'Fred', Description: 'FooFred' });
expect(result.Bar).toEqual({ Value: 'Fred', Description: 'BarFred' });
```

The APIs `hasMapping()`, `findMappings()`, `hasCondition()`, and `hasCondtions()` provide similar functionalities.

## Special Matchers

The expectation provided to the `hasXxx()`, `findXxx()` and `templateMatches()`
APIs, besides carrying literal values, as seen in the above examples, also accept
special matchers. 

They are available as part of the `Match` class.

### Object Matchers

The `Match.objectLike()` API can be used to assert that the target is a superset
object of the provided pattern.
This API will perform a deep partial match on the target.
Deep partial matching is where objects are matched partially recursively. At each
level, the list of keys in the target is a subset of the provided pattern.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": {
//           "Wobble": "Flob",
//           "Bob": "Cat"
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Wobble: 'Flob',
  }),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Brew: 'Coffee',
  }),
});
```

The `Match.objectEquals()` API can be used to assert a target as a deep exact
match.

### Presence and Absence

The `Match.absent()` matcher can be used to specify that a specific
value should not exist on the target. This can be used within `Match.objectLike()`
or outside of any matchers.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": {
//           "Wobble": "Flob",
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Bob: Match.absent(),
  }),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.objectLike({
    Wobble: Match.absent(),
  }),
});
```

The `Match.anyValue()` matcher can be used to specify that a specific value should be found
at the location. This matcher will fail if when the target location has null-ish values
(i.e., `null` or `undefined`).

This matcher can be combined with any of the other matchers.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": {
//           "Wobble": ["Flob", "Flib"],
//         }
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: {
    Wobble: [ Match.anyValue(), Match.anyValue() ],
  },
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: {
    Wimble: Match.anyValue(),
  },
});
```

### Array Matchers

The `Match.arrayWith()` API can be used to assert that the target is equal to or a subset
of the provided pattern array.
This API will perform subset match on the target.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"]
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.arrayWith(['Flob']),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', Match.objectLike({
  Fred: Match.arrayWith(['Wobble']),
}));
```

*Note:* The list of items in the pattern array should be in order as they appear in the
target array. Out of order will be recorded as a match failure.

Alternatively, the `Match.arrayEquals()` API can be used to assert that the target is
exactly equal to the pattern array.

### String Matchers

The `Match.stringLikeRegexp()` API can be used to assert that the target matches the
provided regular expression.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Template": "const includeHeaders = true;"
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Template: Match.stringLikeRegexp('includeHeaders = (true|false)'),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Template: Match.stringLikeRegexp('includeHeaders = null'),
});
```

### Not Matcher

The not matcher inverts the search pattern and matches all patterns in the path that does
not match the pattern specified.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"]
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: Match.not(['Flob']),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', Match.objectLike({
  Fred: Match.not(['Flob', 'Cat']),
}));
```

### Serialized JSON

Often, we find that some CloudFormation Resource types declare properties as a string,
but actually expect JSON serialized as a string.
For example, the [`BuildSpec` property of `AWS::CodeBuild::Project`][Pipeline BuildSpec],
the [`Definition` property of `AWS::StepFunctions::StateMachine`][StateMachine Definition],
to name a couple.

The `Match.serializedJson()` matcher allows deep matching within a stringified JSON.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Baz": "{ \"Fred\": [\"Waldo\", \"Willow\"] }"
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

// The following will NOT throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Baz: Match.serializedJson({
    Fred: Match.arrayWith(["Waldo"]),
  }),
});

// The following will throw an assertion error
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Baz: Match.serializedJson({
    Fred: ["Waldo", "Johnny"],
  }),
});
```

[Pipeline BuildSpec]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-properties-codebuild-project-source.html#cfn-codebuild-project-source-buildspec
[StateMachine Definition]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/aws-resource-stepfunctions-statemachine.html#cfn-stepfunctions-statemachine-definition

## Capturing Values

The matcher APIs documented above allow capturing values in the matching entry
(Resource, Output, Mapping, etc.). The following code captures a string from a
matching resource.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"],
//         "Waldo": ["Qix", "Qux"],
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

const fredCapture = new Capture();
const waldoCapture = new Capture();
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: fredCapture,
  Waldo: ["Qix", waldoCapture],
});

fredCapture.asArray(); // returns ["Flob", "Cat"]
waldoCapture.asString(); // returns "Qux"
```

With captures, a nested pattern can also be specified, so that only targets
that match the nested pattern will be captured. This pattern can be literals or
further Matchers.

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar1": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Flob", "Cat"],
//       }
//     }
//     "MyBar2": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": ["Qix", "Qux"],
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

const capture = new Capture(Match.arrayWith(['Cat']));
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: capture,
});

capture.asArray(); // returns ['Flob', 'Cat']
```

When multiple resources match the given condition, each `Capture` defined in
the condition will capture all matching values. They can be paged through using
the `next()` API. The following example illustrates this -

```ts
// Given a template -
// {
//   "Resources": {
//     "MyBar": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": "Flob",
//       }
//     },
//     "MyBaz": {
//       "Type": "Foo::Bar",
//       "Properties": {
//         "Fred": "Quib",
//       }
//     }
//   }
// }

const fredCapture = new Capture();
template.hasResourceProperties('Foo::Bar', {
  Fred: fredCapture,
});

fredCapture.asString(); // returns "Flob"
fredCapture.next();     // returns true
fredCapture.asString(); // returns "Quib"
```

## Asserting Annotations

In addition to template matching, we provide an API for annotation matching.
[Annotations](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/aws-cdk-lib.Annotations.html)
can be added via the [Aspects](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/v2/docs/aws-cdk-lib.Aspects.html)
API. You can learn more about Aspects [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/v2/guide/aspects.html).

Say you have a `MyAspect` and a `MyStack` that uses `MyAspect`:

```ts nofixture
import * as cdk from '@aws-cdk/core';
import { Construct, IConstruct } from 'constructs';

class MyAspect implements cdk.IAspect {
  public visit(node: IConstruct): void {
    if (node instanceof cdk.CfnResource && node.cfnResourceType === 'Foo::Bar') {
      this.error(node, 'we do not want a Foo::Bar resource');
    }
  }

  protected error(node: IConstruct, message: string): void {
    cdk.Annotations.of(node).addError(message);
  }
}

class MyStack extends cdk.Stack {
  constructor(scope: Construct, id: string) {
    super(scope, id);

    const stack = new cdk.Stack();
    new cdk.CfnResource(stack, 'Foo', {
      type: 'Foo::Bar',
      properties: {
        Fred: 'Thud',
      },
    });
    cdk.Aspects.of(stack).add(new MyAspect());
  }
}
```

We can then assert that the stack contains the expected Error:

```ts
// import { Annotations } from '@aws-cdk/assertions';

Annotations.fromStack(stack).hasError(
  '/Default/Foo',
  'we do not want a Foo::Bar resource',
);
```

Here are the available APIs for `Annotations`:

- `hasError()`, `hasNoError()`, and `findError()`
- `hasWarning()`, `hasNoWarning()`, and `findWarning()`
- `hasInfo()`, `hasNoInfo()`, and `findInfo()`

The corresponding `findXxx()` API is complementary to the `hasXxx()` API, except instead
of asserting its presence, it returns the set of matching messages.

In addition, this suite of APIs is compatable with `Matchers` for more fine-grained control.
For example, the following assertion works as well:

```ts
Annotations.fromStack(stack).hasError(
  '/Default/Foo',
  Match.stringLikeRegexp('.*Foo::Bar.*'),
);
```
