packages/@aws-cdk/aws-redshift/README.md, before:

# Amazon Redshift Construct Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cfn-resources: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cfn--resources-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> All classes with the `Cfn` prefix in this module ([CFN Resources]) are always stable and safe to use.
>
> [CFN Resources]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/latest/guide/constructs.html#constructs_lib

![cdk-constructs: Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-experimental-important.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> The APIs of higher level constructs in this module are experimental and under active development.
> They are subject to non-backward compatible changes or removal in any future version. These are
> not subject to the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) model and breaking changes will be
> announced in the release notes. This means that while you may use them, you may need to update
> your source code when upgrading to a newer version of this package.

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

## Starting a Redshift Cluster Database

To set up a Redshift cluster, define a `Cluster`. It will be launched in a VPC.
You can specify a VPC, otherwise one will be created. The nodes are always launched in private subnets and are encrypted by default.

```ts
import * as ec2 from '@aws-cdk/aws-ec2';

const vpc = new ec2.Vpc(this, 'Vpc');
const cluster = new Cluster(this, 'Redshift', {
  masterUser: {
    masterUsername: 'admin',
  },
  vpc
});
```

By default, the master password will be generated and stored in AWS Secrets Manager.

A default database named `default_db` will be created in the cluster. To change the name of this database set the `defaultDatabaseName` attribute in the constructor properties.

By default, the cluster will not be publicly accessible.
Depending on your use case, you can make the cluster publicly accessible with the `publiclyAccessible` property.

## Connecting

To control who can access the cluster, use the `.connections` attribute. Redshift Clusters have
a default port, so you don't need to specify the port:

```ts fixture=cluster
cluster.connections.allowDefaultPortFromAnyIpv4('Open to the world');
```

The endpoint to access your database cluster will be available as the `.clusterEndpoint` attribute:

```ts fixture=cluster
cluster.clusterEndpoint.socketAddress;   // "HOSTNAME:PORT"
```

## Database Resources

This module allows for the creation of non-CloudFormation database resources such as users
and tables. This allows you to manage identities, permissions, and stateful resources
within your Redshift cluster from your CDK application.

Because these resources are not available in CloudFormation, this library leverages
[custom
resources](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/custom-resources-readme.html)
to manage them. In addition to the IAM permissions required to make Redshift service
calls, the execution role for the custom resource handler requires database credentials to
create resources within the cluster.

These database credentials can be supplied explicitly through the `adminUser` properties
of the various database resource constructs. Alternatively, the credentials can be
automatically pulled from the Redshift cluster's default administrator
credentials. However, this option is only available if the password for the credentials
was generated by the CDK application (ie., no value vas provided for [the `masterPassword`
property](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-redshift.Login.html#masterpasswordspan-classapi-icon-api-icon-experimental-titlethis-api-element-is-experimental-it-may-change-without-noticespan)
of
[`Cluster.masterUser`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-redshift.Cluster.html#masteruserspan-classapi-icon-api-icon-experimental-titlethis-api-element-is-experimental-it-may-change-without-noticespan)).

### Creating Users

Create a user within a Redshift cluster database by instantiating a `User` construct. This
will generate a username and password, store the credentials in a [AWS Secrets Manager
`Secret`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-secretsmanager.Secret.html),
and make a query to the Redshift cluster to create a new database user with the
credentials.

```ts fixture=cluster
new User(this, 'User', {
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

By default, the user credentials are encrypted with your AWS account's default Secrets
Manager encryption key. You can specify the encryption key used for this purpose by
supplying a key in the `encryptionKey` property.

```ts fixture=cluster
import * as kms from '@aws-cdk/aws-kms';

const encryptionKey = new kms.Key(this, 'Key');
new User(this, 'User', {
  encryptionKey: encryptionKey,
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

By default, a username is automatically generated from the user construct ID and its path
in the construct tree. You can specify a particular username by providing a value for the
`username` property. Usernames must be valid identifiers; see: [Names and
identifiers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_names.html) in the *Amazon
Redshift Database Developer Guide*.

```ts fixture=cluster
new User(this, 'User', {
  username: 'myuser',
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

The user password is generated by AWS Secrets Manager using the default configuration
found in
[`secretsmanager.SecretStringGenerator`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-secretsmanager.SecretStringGenerator.html),
except with password length `30` and some SQL-incompliant characters excluded. The
plaintext for the password will never be present in the CDK application; instead, a
[CloudFormation Dynamic
Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/dynamic-references.html)
will be used wherever the password value is required.

### Creating Tables

Create a table within a Redshift cluster database by instantiating a `Table`
construct. This will make a query to the Redshift cluster to create a new database table
with the supplied schema.

```ts fixture=cluster
new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

The table can be configured to have distStyle attribute and a distKey column:

```ts fixture=cluster
new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [
    { name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)', distKey: true },
    { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' },
  ],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
  distStyle: TableDistStyle.KEY,
});
```

The table can also be configured to have sortStyle attribute and sortKey columns:

```ts fixture=cluster
new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [
    { name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)', sortKey: true },
    { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float', sortKey: true },
  ],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
  sortStyle: TableSortStyle.COMPOUND,
});
```

### Granting Privileges

You can give a user privileges to perform certain actions on a table by using the
`Table.grant()` method.

```ts fixture=cluster
const user = new User(this, 'User', {
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
const table = new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});

table.grant(user, TableAction.DROP, TableAction.SELECT);
```

Take care when managing privileges via the CDK, as attempting to manage a user's
privileges on the same table in multiple CDK applications could lead to accidentally
overriding these permissions. Consider the following two CDK applications which both refer
to the same user and table. In application 1, the resources are created and the user is
given `INSERT` permissions on the table:

```ts fixture=cluster
const databaseName = 'databaseName';
const username = 'myuser'
const tableName = 'mytable'

const user = new User(this, 'User', {
  username: username,
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: databaseName,
});
const table = new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: databaseName,
});
table.grant(user, TableAction.INSERT);
```

In application 2, the resources are imported and the user is given `INSERT` permissions on
the table:

```ts fixture=cluster
const databaseName = 'databaseName';
const username = 'myuser'
const tableName = 'mytable'

const user = User.fromUserAttributes(this, 'User', {
  username: username,
  password: SecretValue.unsafePlainText('NOT_FOR_PRODUCTION'),
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: databaseName,
});
const table = Table.fromTableAttributes(this, 'Table', {
  tableName: tableName,
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
table.grant(user, TableAction.INSERT);
```

Both applications attempt to grant the user the appropriate privilege on the table by
submitting a `GRANT USER` SQL query to the Redshift cluster. Note that the latter of these
two calls will have no effect since the user has already been granted the privilege.

Now, if application 1 were to remove the call to `grant`, a `REVOKE USER` SQL query is
submitted to the Redshift cluster. In general, application 1 does not know that
application 2 has also granted this permission and thus cannot decide not to issue the
revocation. This leads to the undesirable state where application 2 still contains the
call to `grant` but the user does not have the specified permission.

Note that this does not occur when duplicate privileges are granted within the same
application, as such privileges are de-duplicated before any SQL query is submitted.

## Rotating credentials

When the master password is generated and stored in AWS Secrets Manager, it can be rotated automatically:

```ts fixture=cluster
cluster.addRotationSingleUser(); // Will rotate automatically after 30 days
```

The multi user rotation scheme is also available:

```ts fixture=cluster

const user = new User(this, 'User', {
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
cluster.addRotationMultiUser('MultiUserRotation', {
  secret: user.secret,
});
```

## Elastic IP

If you configure your cluster to be publicly accessible, you can optionally select an *elastic IP address* to use for the external IP address. An elastic IP address is a static IP address that is associated with your AWS account. You can use an elastic IP address to connect to your cluster from outside the VPC. An elastic IP address gives you the ability to change your underlying configuration without affecting the IP address that clients use to connect to your cluster. This approach can be helpful for situations such as recovery after a failure.

```ts
declare const vpc: ec2.Vpc;

new Cluster(stack, 'Redshift', {
    masterUser: {
      masterUsername: 'admin',
      masterPassword: cdk.SecretValue.unsafePlainText('tooshort'),
    },
    vpc,
    publiclyAccessible: true,
    elasticIp: '10.123.123.255', // A elastic ip you own
})
```

If the Cluster is in a VPC and you want to connect to it using the private IP address from within the cluster, it is important to enable *DNS resolution* and *DNS hostnames* in the VPC config. If these parameters would not be set, connections from within the VPC would connect to the elastic IP address and not the private IP address.

```ts
const vpc = new ec2.Vpc(this, 'VPC', {
  enableDnsSupport: true,
  enableDnsHostnames: true,
});
```

Note that if there is already an existing, public accessible Cluster, which VPC configuration is changed to use *DNS hostnames* and *DNS resolution*, connections still use the elastic IP address until the cluster is resized.

### Elastic IP vs. Cluster node public IP

The elastic IP address is an external IP address for accessing the cluster outside of a VPC. It's not related to the cluster node public IP addresses and private IP addresses that are accessible via the `clusterEndpoint` property. The public and private cluster node IP addresses appear regardless of whether the cluster is publicly accessible or not. They are used only in certain circumstances to configure ingress rules on the remote host. These circumstances occur when you load data from an Amazon EC2 instance or other remote host using a Secure Shell (SSH) connection.

### Attach Elastic IP after Cluster creation

In some cases, you might want to associate the cluster with an elastic IP address or change an elastic IP address that is associated with the cluster. To attach an elastic IP address after the cluster is created, first update the cluster so that it is not publicly accessible, then make it both publicly accessible and add an Elastic IP address in the same operation.

Commit message:

refactor: updating with feedback from the review

packages/@aws-cdk/aws-redshift/README.md, after:

# Amazon Redshift Construct Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cfn-resources: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cfn--resources-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> All classes with the `Cfn` prefix in this module ([CFN Resources]) are always stable and safe to use.
>
> [CFN Resources]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/latest/guide/constructs.html#constructs_lib

![cdk-constructs: Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-experimental-important.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> The APIs of higher level constructs in this module are experimental and under active development.
> They are subject to non-backward compatible changes or removal in any future version. These are
> not subject to the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) model and breaking changes will be
> announced in the release notes. This means that while you may use them, you may need to update
> your source code when upgrading to a newer version of this package.

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

## Starting a Redshift Cluster Database

To set up a Redshift cluster, define a `Cluster`. It will be launched in a VPC.
You can specify a VPC, otherwise one will be created. The nodes are always launched in private subnets and are encrypted by default.

```ts
import * as ec2 from '@aws-cdk/aws-ec2';

const vpc = new ec2.Vpc(this, 'Vpc');
const cluster = new Cluster(this, 'Redshift', {
  masterUser: {
    masterUsername: 'admin',
  },
  vpc
});
```

By default, the master password will be generated and stored in AWS Secrets Manager.

A default database named `default_db` will be created in the cluster. To change the name of this database set the `defaultDatabaseName` attribute in the constructor properties.

By default, the cluster will not be publicly accessible.
Depending on your use case, you can make the cluster publicly accessible with the `publiclyAccessible` property.

## Connecting

To control who can access the cluster, use the `.connections` attribute. Redshift Clusters have
a default port, so you don't need to specify the port:

```ts fixture=cluster
cluster.connections.allowDefaultPortFromAnyIpv4('Open to the world');
```

The endpoint to access your database cluster will be available as the `.clusterEndpoint` attribute:

```ts fixture=cluster
cluster.clusterEndpoint.socketAddress;   // "HOSTNAME:PORT"
```

## Database Resources

This module allows for the creation of non-CloudFormation database resources such as users
and tables. This allows you to manage identities, permissions, and stateful resources
within your Redshift cluster from your CDK application.

Because these resources are not available in CloudFormation, this library leverages
[custom
resources](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/custom-resources-readme.html)
to manage them. In addition to the IAM permissions required to make Redshift service
calls, the execution role for the custom resource handler requires database credentials to
create resources within the cluster.

These database credentials can be supplied explicitly through the `adminUser` properties
of the various database resource constructs. Alternatively, the credentials can be
automatically pulled from the Redshift cluster's default administrator
credentials. However, this option is only available if the password for the credentials
was generated by the CDK application (ie., no value vas provided for [the `masterPassword`
property](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-redshift.Login.html#masterpasswordspan-classapi-icon-api-icon-experimental-titlethis-api-element-is-experimental-it-may-change-without-noticespan)
of
[`Cluster.masterUser`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-redshift.Cluster.html#masteruserspan-classapi-icon-api-icon-experimental-titlethis-api-element-is-experimental-it-may-change-without-noticespan)).

### Creating Users

Create a user within a Redshift cluster database by instantiating a `User` construct. This
will generate a username and password, store the credentials in a [AWS Secrets Manager
`Secret`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-secretsmanager.Secret.html),
and make a query to the Redshift cluster to create a new database user with the
credentials.

```ts fixture=cluster
new User(this, 'User', {
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

By default, the user credentials are encrypted with your AWS account's default Secrets
Manager encryption key. You can specify the encryption key used for this purpose by
supplying a key in the `encryptionKey` property.

```ts fixture=cluster
import * as kms from '@aws-cdk/aws-kms';

const encryptionKey = new kms.Key(this, 'Key');
new User(this, 'User', {
  encryptionKey: encryptionKey,
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

By default, a username is automatically generated from the user construct ID and its path
in the construct tree. You can specify a particular username by providing a value for the
`username` property. Usernames must be valid identifiers; see: [Names and
identifiers](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/r_names.html) in the *Amazon
Redshift Database Developer Guide*.

```ts fixture=cluster
new User(this, 'User', {
  username: 'myuser',
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

The user password is generated by AWS Secrets Manager using the default configuration
found in
[`secretsmanager.SecretStringGenerator`](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/api/latest/docs/@aws-cdk_aws-secretsmanager.SecretStringGenerator.html),
except with password length `30` and some SQL-incompliant characters excluded. The
plaintext for the password will never be present in the CDK application; instead, a
[CloudFormation Dynamic
Reference](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSCloudFormation/latest/UserGuide/dynamic-references.html)
will be used wherever the password value is required.

### Creating Tables

Create a table within a Redshift cluster database by instantiating a `Table`
construct. This will make a query to the Redshift cluster to create a new database table
with the supplied schema.

```ts fixture=cluster
new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
```

The table can be configured to have distStyle attribute and a distKey column:

```ts fixture=cluster
new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [
    { name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)', distKey: true },
    { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' },
  ],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
  distStyle: TableDistStyle.KEY,
});
```

The table can also be configured to have sortStyle attribute and sortKey columns:

```ts fixture=cluster
new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [
    { name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)', sortKey: true },
    { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float', sortKey: true },
  ],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
  sortStyle: TableSortStyle.COMPOUND,
});
```

### Granting Privileges

You can give a user privileges to perform certain actions on a table by using the
`Table.grant()` method.

```ts fixture=cluster
const user = new User(this, 'User', {
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
const table = new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});

table.grant(user, TableAction.DROP, TableAction.SELECT);
```

Take care when managing privileges via the CDK, as attempting to manage a user's
privileges on the same table in multiple CDK applications could lead to accidentally
overriding these permissions. Consider the following two CDK applications which both refer
to the same user and table. In application 1, the resources are created and the user is
given `INSERT` permissions on the table:

```ts fixture=cluster
const databaseName = 'databaseName';
const username = 'myuser'
const tableName = 'mytable'

const user = new User(this, 'User', {
  username: username,
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: databaseName,
});
const table = new Table(this, 'Table', {
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: databaseName,
});
table.grant(user, TableAction.INSERT);
```

In application 2, the resources are imported and the user is given `INSERT` permissions on
the table:

```ts fixture=cluster
const databaseName = 'databaseName';
const username = 'myuser'
const tableName = 'mytable'

const user = User.fromUserAttributes(this, 'User', {
  username: username,
  password: SecretValue.unsafePlainText('NOT_FOR_PRODUCTION'),
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: databaseName,
});
const table = Table.fromTableAttributes(this, 'Table', {
  tableName: tableName,
  tableColumns: [{ name: 'col1', dataType: 'varchar(4)' }, { name: 'col2', dataType: 'float' }],
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
table.grant(user, TableAction.INSERT);
```

Both applications attempt to grant the user the appropriate privilege on the table by
submitting a `GRANT USER` SQL query to the Redshift cluster. Note that the latter of these
two calls will have no effect since the user has already been granted the privilege.

Now, if application 1 were to remove the call to `grant`, a `REVOKE USER` SQL query is
submitted to the Redshift cluster. In general, application 1 does not know that
application 2 has also granted this permission and thus cannot decide not to issue the
revocation. This leads to the undesirable state where application 2 still contains the
call to `grant` but the user does not have the specified permission.

Note that this does not occur when duplicate privileges are granted within the same
application, as such privileges are de-duplicated before any SQL query is submitted.

## Rotating credentials

When the master password is generated and stored in AWS Secrets Manager, it can be rotated automatically:

```ts fixture=cluster
cluster.addRotationSingleUser(); // Will rotate automatically after 30 days
```

The multi user rotation scheme is also available:

```ts fixture=cluster

const user = new User(this, 'User', {
  cluster: cluster,
  databaseName: 'databaseName',
});
cluster.addRotationMultiUser('MultiUserRotation', {
  secret: user.secret,
});
```

## Adding Parameters

You can add a parameter to a parameter group by using the
`ClusterParameterGroup.addParameter()` method.

```ts
const params = new ClusterParameterGroup(stack, 'Params', {
  description: 'desc',
  parameters: {
    require_ssl: 'true',
  },
});

params.addParameter('enable_user_activity_logging', 'true');
```

Additionally, you can add a parameter to the cluster's associated parameter group by using the
`Cluster.addToParameterGroup()` method. If the cluster does not have an associated parameter group, a new parameter group is created.

```ts fixture=cluster
cluster.addToParameterGroup('enable_user_activity_logging', 'true');
```

Note that both the `ClusterParameterGroup.addParameter()` and `Cluster.addToParameterGroup()` methods will throw an error when attempting to add a parameter to an imported parameter group or when attempting to add an existing parameter with a different value than the existing value.

## Elastic IP

If you configure your cluster to be publicly accessible, you can optionally select an *elastic IP address* to use for the external IP address. An elastic IP address is a static IP address that is associated with your AWS account. You can use an elastic IP address to connect to your cluster from outside the VPC. An elastic IP address gives you the ability to change your underlying configuration without affecting the IP address that clients use to connect to your cluster. This approach can be helpful for situations such as recovery after a failure.

```ts
declare const vpc: ec2.Vpc;

new Cluster(stack, 'Redshift', {
    masterUser: {
      masterUsername: 'admin',
      masterPassword: cdk.SecretValue.unsafePlainText('tooshort'),
    },
    vpc,
    publiclyAccessible: true,
    elasticIp: '10.123.123.255', // A elastic ip you own
})
```

If the Cluster is in a VPC and you want to connect to it using the private IP address from within the cluster, it is important to enable *DNS resolution* and *DNS hostnames* in the VPC config. If these parameters would not be set, connections from within the VPC would connect to the elastic IP address and not the private IP address.

```ts
const vpc = new ec2.Vpc(this, 'VPC', {
  enableDnsSupport: true,
  enableDnsHostnames: true,
});
```

Note that if there is already an existing, public accessible Cluster, which VPC configuration is changed to use *DNS hostnames* and *DNS resolution*, connections still use the elastic IP address until the cluster is resized.

### Elastic IP vs. Cluster node public IP

The elastic IP address is an external IP address for accessing the cluster outside of a VPC. It's not related to the cluster node public IP addresses and private IP addresses that are accessible via the `clusterEndpoint` property. The public and private cluster node IP addresses appear regardless of whether the cluster is publicly accessible or not. They are used only in certain circumstances to configure ingress rules on the remote host. These circumstances occur when you load data from an Amazon EC2 instance or other remote host using a Secure Shell (SSH) connection.

### Attach Elastic IP after Cluster creation

In some cases, you might want to associate the cluster with an elastic IP address or change an elastic IP address that is associated with the cluster. To attach an elastic IP address after the cluster is created, first update the cluster so that it is not publicly accessible, then make it both publicly accessible and add an Elastic IP address in the same operation.
