packages/@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker/README.md, before:

# Amazon SageMaker Construct Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cfn-resources: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cfn--resources-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> All classes with the `Cfn` prefix in this module ([CFN Resources]) are always stable and safe to use.
>
> [CFN Resources]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/latest/guide/constructs.html#constructs_lib

![cdk-constructs: Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-experimental-important.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> The APIs of higher level constructs in this module are experimental and under active development.
> They are subject to non-backward compatible changes or removal in any future version. These are
> not subject to the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) model and breaking changes will be
> announced in the release notes. This means that while you may use them, you may need to update
> your source code when upgrading to a newer version of this package.

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

Amazon SageMaker provides every developer and data scientist with the ability to build, train, and
deploy machine learning models quickly. Amazon SageMaker is a fully-managed service that covers the
entire machine learning workflow to label and prepare your data, choose an algorithm, train the
model, tune and optimize it for deployment, make predictions, and take action. Your models get to
production faster with much less effort and lower cost.

## Installation

Install the module:

```console
$ npm i @aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker
```

Import it into your code:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
```

## Model

In machine learning, a model is used to make predictions, or inferences. A deployable model in
SageMaker consists of inference code and model artifacts. Model artifacts are the results of model
training by using a machine learning algorithm. The inference code must be packaged in a Docker
container and stored in Amazon ECR. You can either package the model artifacts in the same container
as the inference code, or store them in Amazon S3. As model artifacts may change each time a new
model is trained (while the inference code may remain static), artifact separation in S3 may act as
a natural decoupling point for your application.

When instantiating the `Model` construct, you tell Amazon SageMaker where it can find these model
components. The `ContainerDefinition` interface encapsulates both the specification of model
inference code as a `ContainerImage` and an optional set of separate artifacts as `ModelData`.

### Single Container Model

In the event that a single container is sufficient for your inference use-case, you can define a
single-container model:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
import * as path from 'path';

const image = sagemaker.ContainerImage.fromAsset(this, 'Image', {
  directory: path.join('path', 'to', 'Dockerfile', 'directory')
});
const modelData = sagemaker.ModelData.fromAsset(this, 'ModelData',
  path.join('path', 'to', 'artifact', 'file.tar.gz'));

const model = new sagemaker.Model(this, 'PrimaryContainerModel', {
  containers: [
    {
      image: image,
      modelData: modelData,
    }
  ]
});
```

### Inference Pipeline Model

An inference pipeline is an Amazon SageMaker model that is composed of a linear sequence of multiple
containers that process requests for inferences on data. You use an inference pipeline to
define and deploy any combination of pretrained Amazon SageMaker built-in algorithms and your own
custom algorithms packaged in Docker containers. You can use an inference pipeline to combine
preprocessing, predictions, and post-processing data science tasks. Inference pipelines are fully
managed. To define an inference pipeline, you can provide additional containers for your model:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const image1: sagemaker.ContainerImage;
declare const modelData1: sagemaker.ModelData;
declare const image2: sagemaker.ContainerImage;
declare const modelData2: sagemaker.ModelData;
declare const image3: sagemaker.ContainerImage;
declare const modelData3: sagemaker.ModelData;

const model = new sagemaker.Model(this, 'InferencePipelineModel', {
  containers: [
    { image: image1, modelData: modelData1 },
    { image: image2, modelData: modelData2 },
    { image: image3, modelData: modelData3 }
  ],
});
```

### Container Images

Inference code can be stored in the Amazon EC2 Container Registry (Amazon ECR), which is specified
via `ContainerDefinition`'s `image` property which accepts a class that extends the `ContainerImage`
abstract base class.

#### Asset Image

Reference a local directory containing a Dockerfile:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
import * as path from 'path';

const image = sagemaker.ContainerImage.fromAsset(this, 'Image', {
  directory: path.join('path', 'to', 'Dockerfile', 'directory')
});
```

#### ECR Image

Reference an image available within ECR:

```typescript
import * as ecr from '@aws-cdk/aws-ecr';
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

const repository = ecr.Repository.fromRepositoryName(this, 'Repository', 'repo');
const image = sagemaker.ContainerImage.fromEcrRepository(repository, 'tag');
```

### Model Artifacts

If you choose to decouple your model artifacts from your inference code, the artifacts can be
specified via the `modelData` property which accepts a class that extends the `ModelData` abstract
base class. The default is to have no model artifacts associated with a model.

#### Asset Model Data

Reference local model data:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
import * as path from 'path';

const modelData = sagemaker.ModelData.fromAsset(this, 'ModelData',
  path.join('path', 'to', 'artifact', 'file.tar.gz'));
```

#### S3 Model Data

Reference an S3 bucket and object key as the artifacts for a model:

```typescript
import * as s3 from '@aws-cdk/aws-s3';
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

const bucket = new s3.Bucket(this, 'MyBucket');
const modelData = sagemaker.ModelData.fromBucket(bucket, 'path/to/artifact/file.tar.gz');
```

## Model Hosting

Amazon SageMaker provides model hosting services for model deployment. Amazon SageMaker provides an
HTTPS endpoint where your machine learning model is available to provide inferences.

### Endpoint Configuration

In this configuration, you identify one or more models to deploy and the resources that you want
Amazon SageMaker to provision. You define one or more production variants, each of which identifies
a model. Each production variant also describes the resources that you want Amazon SageMaker to
provision. This includes the number and type of ML compute instances to deploy. If you are hosting
multiple models, you also assign a variant weight to specify how much traffic you want to allocate
to each model. For example, suppose that you want to host two models, A and B, and you assign
traffic weight 2 for model A and 1 for model B. Amazon SageMaker distributes two-thirds of the
traffic to Model A, and one-third to model B:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const modelA: sagemaker.Model;
declare const modelB: sagemaker.Model;

const endpointConfig = new sagemaker.EndpointConfig(this, 'EndpointConfig', {
  productionVariants: [
    {
      model: modelA,
      variantName: 'modelA',
      initialVariantWeight: 2.0,
    },
    {
      model: modelB,
      variantName: 'variantB',
      initialVariantWeight: 1.0,
    },
  ]
});
```

### Endpoint

If you create an endpoint from an `EndpointConfig`, Amazon SageMaker launches the ML compute
instances and deploys the model or models as specified in the configuration. To get inferences from
the model, client applications send requests to the Amazon SageMaker Runtime HTTPS endpoint. For
more information about the API, see the
[InvokeEndpoint](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/API_runtime_InvokeEndpoint.html)
API. Defining an endpoint requires at minimum the associated endpoint configuration:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const endpointConfig: sagemaker.EndpointConfig;

const endpoint = new sagemaker.Endpoint(this, 'Endpoint', { endpointConfig });
```

### AutoScaling

To enable autoscaling on the production variant, use the `autoScaleInstanceCount` method:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const endpointConfig: sagemaker.EndpointConfig;

const endpoint = new sagemaker.Endpoint(this, 'Endpoint', { endpointConfig });
const productionVariant = endpoint.findProductionVariant('variantName');
const instanceCount = productionVariant.autoScaleInstanceCount({
  maxCapacity: 3
});
instanceCount.scaleOnInvocations('LimitRPS', {
  maxRequestsPerSecond: 30,
});
```

For load testing guidance on determining the maximum requests per second per instance, please see
this [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/endpoint-scaling-loadtest.html).

### Metrics

The `IEndpointProductionVariant` interface also provides a set of APIs for referencing CloudWatch
metrics associated with a production variant associated with an endpoint:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const endpointConfig: sagemaker.EndpointConfig;

const endpoint = new sagemaker.Endpoint(this, 'Endpoint', { endpointConfig });
const productionVariant = endpoint.findProductionVariant('variantName');
productionVariant.metricModelLatency().createAlarm(this, 'ModelLatencyAlarm', {
  threshold: 100000,
  evaluationPeriods: 3,
});
```

Commit message:

Document EndpointConfig reuse across Endpoints

packages/@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker/README.md, after:

# Amazon SageMaker Construct Library
<!--BEGIN STABILITY BANNER-->

---

![cfn-resources: Stable](https://img.shields.io/badge/cfn--resources-stable-success.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> All classes with the `Cfn` prefix in this module ([CFN Resources]) are always stable and safe to use.
>
> [CFN Resources]: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/cdk/latest/guide/constructs.html#constructs_lib

![cdk-constructs: Experimental](https://img.shields.io/badge/cdk--constructs-experimental-important.svg?style=for-the-badge)

> The APIs of higher level constructs in this module are experimental and under active development.
> They are subject to non-backward compatible changes or removal in any future version. These are
> not subject to the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) model and breaking changes will be
> announced in the release notes. This means that while you may use them, you may need to update
> your source code when upgrading to a newer version of this package.

---

<!--END STABILITY BANNER-->

Amazon SageMaker provides every developer and data scientist with the ability to build, train, and
deploy machine learning models quickly. Amazon SageMaker is a fully-managed service that covers the
entire machine learning workflow to label and prepare your data, choose an algorithm, train the
model, tune and optimize it for deployment, make predictions, and take action. Your models get to
production faster with much less effort and lower cost.

## Installation

Install the module:

```console
$ npm i @aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker
```

Import it into your code:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
```

## Model

In machine learning, a model is used to make predictions, or inferences. A deployable model in
SageMaker consists of inference code and model artifacts. Model artifacts are the results of model
training by using a machine learning algorithm. The inference code must be packaged in a Docker
container and stored in Amazon ECR. You can either package the model artifacts in the same container
as the inference code, or store them in Amazon S3. As model artifacts may change each time a new
model is trained (while the inference code may remain static), artifact separation in S3 may act as
a natural decoupling point for your application.

When instantiating the `Model` construct, you tell Amazon SageMaker where it can find these model
components. The `ContainerDefinition` interface encapsulates both the specification of model
inference code as a `ContainerImage` and an optional set of separate artifacts as `ModelData`.

### Single Container Model

In the event that a single container is sufficient for your inference use-case, you can define a
single-container model:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
import * as path from 'path';

const image = sagemaker.ContainerImage.fromAsset(this, 'Image', {
  directory: path.join('path', 'to', 'Dockerfile', 'directory')
});
const modelData = sagemaker.ModelData.fromAsset(this, 'ModelData',
  path.join('path', 'to', 'artifact', 'file.tar.gz'));

const model = new sagemaker.Model(this, 'PrimaryContainerModel', {
  containers: [
    {
      image: image,
      modelData: modelData,
    }
  ]
});
```

### Inference Pipeline Model

An inference pipeline is an Amazon SageMaker model that is composed of a linear sequence of multiple
containers that process requests for inferences on data. You use an inference pipeline to
define and deploy any combination of pretrained Amazon SageMaker built-in algorithms and your own
custom algorithms packaged in Docker containers. You can use an inference pipeline to combine
preprocessing, predictions, and post-processing data science tasks. Inference pipelines are fully
managed. To define an inference pipeline, you can provide additional containers for your model:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const image1: sagemaker.ContainerImage;
declare const modelData1: sagemaker.ModelData;
declare const image2: sagemaker.ContainerImage;
declare const modelData2: sagemaker.ModelData;
declare const image3: sagemaker.ContainerImage;
declare const modelData3: sagemaker.ModelData;

const model = new sagemaker.Model(this, 'InferencePipelineModel', {
  containers: [
    { image: image1, modelData: modelData1 },
    { image: image2, modelData: modelData2 },
    { image: image3, modelData: modelData3 }
  ],
});
```

### Container Images

Inference code can be stored in the Amazon EC2 Container Registry (Amazon ECR), which is specified
via `ContainerDefinition`'s `image` property which accepts a class that extends the `ContainerImage`
abstract base class.

#### Asset Image

Reference a local directory containing a Dockerfile:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
import * as path from 'path';

const image = sagemaker.ContainerImage.fromAsset(this, 'Image', {
  directory: path.join('path', 'to', 'Dockerfile', 'directory')
});
```

#### ECR Image

Reference an image available within ECR:

```typescript
import * as ecr from '@aws-cdk/aws-ecr';
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

const repository = ecr.Repository.fromRepositoryName(this, 'Repository', 'repo');
const image = sagemaker.ContainerImage.fromEcrRepository(repository, 'tag');
```

### Model Artifacts

If you choose to decouple your model artifacts from your inference code, the artifacts can be
specified via the `modelData` property which accepts a class that extends the `ModelData` abstract
base class. The default is to have no model artifacts associated with a model.

#### Asset Model Data

Reference local model data:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';
import * as path from 'path';

const modelData = sagemaker.ModelData.fromAsset(this, 'ModelData',
  path.join('path', 'to', 'artifact', 'file.tar.gz'));
```

#### S3 Model Data

Reference an S3 bucket and object key as the artifacts for a model:

```typescript
import * as s3 from '@aws-cdk/aws-s3';
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

const bucket = new s3.Bucket(this, 'MyBucket');
const modelData = sagemaker.ModelData.fromBucket(bucket, 'path/to/artifact/file.tar.gz');
```

## Model Hosting

Amazon SageMaker provides model hosting services for model deployment. Amazon SageMaker provides an
HTTPS endpoint where your machine learning model is available to provide inferences.

### Endpoint Configuration

By using the `EndpointConfig` construct, you can define a set of endpoint configuration which can be
used to provision one or more endpoints. In this configuration, you identify one or more models to
deploy and the resources that you want Amazon SageMaker to provision. You define one or more
production variants, each of which identifies a model. Each production variant also describes the
resources that you want Amazon SageMaker to provision. This includes the number and type of ML
compute instances to deploy. If you are hosting multiple models, you also assign a variant weight to
specify how much traffic you want to allocate to each model. For example, suppose that you want to
host two models, A and B, and you assign traffic weight 2 for model A and 1 for model B. Amazon
SageMaker distributes two-thirds of the traffic to Model A, and one-third to model B:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const modelA: sagemaker.Model;
declare const modelB: sagemaker.Model;

const endpointConfig = new sagemaker.EndpointConfig(this, 'EndpointConfig', {
  productionVariants: [
    {
      model: modelA,
      variantName: 'modelA',
      initialVariantWeight: 2.0,
    },
    {
      model: modelB,
      variantName: 'variantB',
      initialVariantWeight: 1.0,
    },
  ]
});
```

### Endpoint

When you create an endpoint from an `EndpointConfig`, Amazon SageMaker launches the ML compute
instances and deploys the model or models as specified in the configuration. To get inferences from
the model, client applications send requests to the Amazon SageMaker Runtime HTTPS endpoint. For
more information about the API, see the
[InvokeEndpoint](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/API_runtime_InvokeEndpoint.html)
API. Defining an endpoint requires at minimum the associated endpoint configuration:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const endpointConfig: sagemaker.EndpointConfig;

const endpoint = new sagemaker.Endpoint(this, 'Endpoint', { endpointConfig });
```

### AutoScaling

To enable autoscaling on the production variant, use the `autoScaleInstanceCount` method:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const endpointConfig: sagemaker.EndpointConfig;

const endpoint = new sagemaker.Endpoint(this, 'Endpoint', { endpointConfig });
const productionVariant = endpoint.findProductionVariant('variantName');
const instanceCount = productionVariant.autoScaleInstanceCount({
  maxCapacity: 3
});
instanceCount.scaleOnInvocations('LimitRPS', {
  maxRequestsPerSecond: 30,
});
```

For load testing guidance on determining the maximum requests per second per instance, please see
this [documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/latest/dg/endpoint-scaling-loadtest.html).

### Metrics

The `IEndpointProductionVariant` interface also provides a set of APIs for referencing CloudWatch
metrics associated with a production variant associated with an endpoint:

```typescript
import * as sagemaker from '@aws-cdk/aws-sagemaker';

declare const endpointConfig: sagemaker.EndpointConfig;

const endpoint = new sagemaker.Endpoint(this, 'Endpoint', { endpointConfig });
const productionVariant = endpoint.findProductionVariant('variantName');
productionVariant.metricModelLatency().createAlarm(this, 'ModelLatencyAlarm', {
  threshold: 100000,
  evaluationPeriods: 3,
});
```
